
Effective Capital Conservation Buffer 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
(CCB) (standard CCB of 2.5% + D­SIB Buffer
+ CCyB) in percentage points (in %)
Capital requirements under Business as Usual
Total Pillar 1 ­ ­ ­
Top 3 Pillar 2 capital requirements
Other Pillar 2 capital requirements
Total Pillar 2 ­
Minimum regulatory CAR requirement 10.50% 10.50% 10.50%
(incl. CCB)
Actual CAR Ratio
Total Capital Surplus/ deficit (Measured ­ ­ ­
including capital buffer requirements)
Minimum CET1 regulatory requirement 7.00% 7.00% 7.00%
(incl. CCB)
Actual CET1 Ratio
CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure ­ ­ ­
includes capital buffer requirements)
Stress Testing
Minimum regulatory CAR requirement 10.50% 10.50%
(excl. CCB)
Actual CAR Ratio under ST
Additive impact of ST on CAR
Surplus / (Deficit, i.e., additional capital ­ ­
required)
Minimum regulatory CET1 requirement 7.00% 7.00%
(excl. CCB)
Actual CET1 Ratio under ST
Additive impact of ST on CET1 ratio
CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure ­ ­
includes capital buffer requirements)
135. The ICAAP: Executive Summary Table (Table 3) above should be used for the ICAAP
report for the FY2022 ICAAP report. Each bank is required to download the most current
reporting template prior to finalizing the ICAAP report from the CBUAE IRR SYSTEM
(BRF/BASEL Portal) (CBUAE IRR), in the live environment for banks:
(i) Detailed reporting template including description (this report must be available
upon request); and
(ii) Executive Summary report (should form part of the ICAAP report Executive
Summary).
176

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 29]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 3 – Additional Requirements for the ICAAP
3.1 Governance and Risk Management
136. In the ICAAP report, each bank should provide high level summaries of key areas of
the risk framework of the bank: organisational structure, governance framework, risk
management function and the risk control function. The bank’s high level summaries should
refer to the relevant policies, procedures, manuals, and limits:
3.1.1 Organisational Structure
137. Each bank is expected to describe how
(i) The bank’s Board encourages a risk culture and prudent behaviours at all levels;
(ii) The Board Risk Committee (“BRC”) provides oversight and challenges the risk
exposures, risk appetite, and tolerance; and
(iii) The Risk Management Function (RMF) is structured, including reporting lines
and a summary of functions and responsibilities. The RMF should have
authority, responsibilities, and resources, to conduct risk related policies and the
risk management framework, and committees addressing the risk function.
3.1.2 Governance Framework
138. Each bank is expected to describe
(i) Board and Senior Management oversight (i.e. ICAAP governance framework
with a description of responsibilities, and the separation of functions);
(ii) Arrangements through which the Board and Senior Management define the
bank-wide risk appetite;
(iii) Relevant policies and risk appetite/limits/tolerance; and
(iv) How the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is held responsible for the methodology and
utilisation of the ICAAP, including
 reporting comprehensive, comprehensible information on risks; and
 advising the Board independently and objectively, enabling them to
understand the bank’s overall risk profile and to effectively discharge
their responsibilities.
3.1.3 Risk Management Function (RMF) and Risk Control Function
139. With regard to the bank’s risk management and control function, the ICAAP report is
expected to describe
(i) How the RMF has access to all business lines and other units that might have
possibility in generating risk , and to all relevant subsidiaries, and affiliates;
(ii) RMF processes/ practices/ mechanisms through which the bank effectively
identifies, measures, monitors, and reports material risks;
(iii) Mechanisms that ensure that the policies, methodologies, controls, and risk
monitoring systems are developed, validated, maintained and appropriately
177

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 30]
CBUAE Classification: Public
approved;
(iv) Processes to effectively identify and review the changes in risks arising from the
bank’s strategy, business model, new products, and changes in the economic
environment;
(v) Capital contingency plans for surviving unexpected events;
(vi) Risk management information systems (MIS) that ensure:
 That the bank distributes regular, accurate, and timely information on the
bank’s aggregate risk profile internally;
 The appropriate frequency and distribution of risk management
information;
 Early warning processes for pre-empting capital limit breaches; and
 Internal decision-making process are facilitated to allow the bank’s
management to authorize remedial actions before capital adequacy is
compromised.
(vii) The bank’s risk appetite as defined and used in the preparation of the ICAAP,
which should be consistently referenced for taking business decisions;
(viii) Risk quantification methodologies that are clearly articulated and documented,
including high-level risk measurement assumptions and parameters;
(ix) The approaches used to assess capital adequacy, which should include the
stress test framework and a well-articulated definition of capital adequacy;
(x) The capital planning process objectives, which should be forward-looking and
aligned to the bank’s business model and strategy;
(xi) Capital allocation processes including monitoring among business lines and
identified risk types (e.g. risk limits defined for business lines, entities, or
individual risks should be consistent to ensure the overall adequacy of the bank’s
internal capital resources); and
(xii) The boundary of entities included,
(xiii) The process of risk identification, and
(xiv) The bank’s risk inventory and classification, reflecting the materiality of risks and
the treatment of those risks through capital.
140. The internal control functions should play a vital role in contributing to the formation of
a sustainable business strategy. The ICAAP report should describe the following with regard
to internal control functions:
(i) The responsibilities of Internal Audit and Compliance concerning risk
management;
(ii) Any relevant internal and external audit reviews of risk management and the
conclusions reached; and
(iii) Outsourcing arrangements that have a material effect on internal capital
adequacy management, if any. This should elaborate the bank’s reliance on, or
178

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 31 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
use of, any third parties such as external consultants or suppliers. The bank
should provide a high-level summary reports or reviews of the outsourced
functions’ related policy documentation and processes.
3.2 Models
141. The ICAAP report is required to address models used to comply with regulatory and
accounting requirements, and those used for internal capital management, including but not
limited to models used for:
(i) IFRS9 accounting requirements;
(ii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 1 risks for capital requirements under the
Pillar 2;
(iii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 2 risks for capital requirements;
(iv) Regulatory stress tests requirements;
(v) Risk Management Regulations;
(vi) Valuation adjustments; and
(vii) Pricing models, capital allocation models, and budgeting models.
3.3 Reverse Stress Testing
142. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests and document the process and outcomes of the process in the ICAAP report.
143. Banks are expected to apply a mix of qualitative analyses and quantitative analyses,
which may vary in relation to the nature, scale, and complexity of the banks’ business activities
and the risks associated with those activities. Accordingly, it may be acceptable for smaller
and less complex banks to develop reverse stress tests that focus more on qualitative
analyses, while larger and more banks that are complex should include more quantitative
elements alongside the qualitative analyses. Appropriate scenarios differ based on each bank
economic circumstances, business model and risk drivers.
144. A bank may consider implementing the following steps, which are presented purely for
illustrative purposes:
(i) Define specific trigger points that could threaten the bank’s viability or
solvency. Such trigger points may involve situations in which:
 The bank’s capital or liquidity positions fall below the minimum regulatory
requirements;
 Specific indicators which, if hit, reflect a loss of confidence by the bank’s
counterparties (e.g. access to wholesale funding markets denied) or by
depositors (e.g. deposit run-off rates reach a significant level); or
 The bank is unable to repay its debt obligations. Some of the indicators
may render the banks unviable (e.g. due to illiquidity resulting from a
substantial and rapid deposit run) before it becomes insolvent.
(ii) Reverse-engineering the bank’s business model to the point that the trigger
points are breached. In this way, it is possible to identify what adverse but
plausible financial or non-financial events, either independently or combined,
179