[Document: PII.pdf, Page 5 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
plus approach. According to this, the bank’s total capital requirements include the minimum
Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirements, plus the capital required to cover Pillar 2 risks. As a
result, the ICAAP should result in additional capital requirements specific to each bank’s
business model.
18. Board and Senior Management are responsible to deliver a comprehensive, effective,
and accurate assessment of capital adequacy. Each bank is consequently required to conduct
an ICAAP supported by appropriate methods and procedures to ensure that adequate capital
covers all material risks. Each bank should adopt progressively more sophisticated
approaches in measuring risks to keep up with the business model evolvement, the risk profile,
size of the bank, and appropriate market practice. The key objective is for each bank to be
transparent and demonstrate the relevance of the approach taken in relation to the nature of
their activities and risk profile to the Board and the Central Bank.
19. The frequency of reporting to the Board is expected to be at least quarterly, but,
depending on the size, complexity, business model, risk types of the institution, and the market
environment, reporting might need to be more frequent to ensure timely management actions.
The quarterly reporting should comprise the internal calculation of the capital ratios (Pillar 1
and Pillar 2 under business-as-usual (BAU) and under stress scenarios), which includes
determining the surplus/ shortfall of capital. Stress scenarios and internal forecasts only need
to be updated on a quarterly basis, if required. Nevertheless, the ICAAP reporting to the
Central Bank remains an annual exercise. However, if the quarterly results deviate significantly
compared to the results of the ICAAP report as submitted to the Central Bank, then the bank
should inform the Central Bank of the updated capital plan (including reasons for the
deviations, capital ratios and mitigation actions).
20. The ICAAP should be supported by robust methodologies and data. All models used
directly or indirectly in the ICAAP should follow the bank’s model management framework, in
compliance with the Central Bank Standards and Guidance. The data employed in the ICAAP
should be comprehensive, reliable, follow rigorous quality checks, and control mechanisms.
Scope
21. Each bank is expected to ensure the effectiveness and consistency of the ICAAP at
each level, with a special focus on the group level for local banks. The ICAAP of these banks
is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand-alone basis, at regulatory
consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should primarily evaluate the
capital requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory
consolidation. However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the
group structure of the bank. The group structure must be analysed from different perspectives.
To be able to effectively assess and maintain capital adequacy across entities, strategies, risk
management processes, decision-making, methodologies, and assumptions applied should
be coherent across the entire group. Identified additional risks may increase the capital
requirement on group level accordingly.
22. Capital transferability within the group should be assessed conservatively and
cautiously, which should be considered in the ICAAP. Each bank should have a process to
ensure capital transferability that addresses any restrictions on the management's ability to
transfer or allocate capital into or out of the bank's subsidiaries (for example contractual,
commercial, regulatory, or statutory/legal restrictions that may apply). The capital allocation or
distribution and the approval process between the bank’s holding company (group/parent) and
the subsidiaries in the banking group should be well defined. The analysis should also consider
risks arising from structural foreign currency positions relating to assets, liabilities, and equity.
23. A bank that has domestic or foreign subsidiaries or branches is expected to evaluate
the difference between the ICAAP determined for the bank (including its subsidiaries) and the
153

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 6]
CBUAE Classification: Public
ICAAP at solo level (without subsidiaries). Therefore, the bank should identify any potential
and additional risks both at consolidated group level and at solo bank level. The analysis
should also address international operations that have jurisdictional capital requirements or
restrictions.
24. Additional risks may also arise from entities that are not consolidated under Pillar 1,
e.g. investments in commercial subsidiaries, including Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV), and
insurance companies. Each bank should evaluate whether the required Pillar 1 capital
adequately covers all risks arising from those entities. The evaluation should consider all risk
types, including credit risk, reputational risk, and step-in risk, etc. The analysis should not be
limited to branches and subsidiaries but should also consider affiliates, if material. Such
analysis should not be limited to local banks only, also foreign banks operating in the UAE
should identify and analyse all their dependencies on parent companies through centralised
risk management/ shared services etc.
Use Test
25. The ICAAP and the bank’s business strategy form a feedback process. While the
ICAAP has to reflect the bank’s business strategy, and business decisions. The bank should
implement a formal process to analyse whether the outcomes of the ICAAP influence the
business strategy. Banks should determine which additional capital requirements under Pillar
1 and Pillar 2 in business as usual BAU and stress scenarios on the top of the minimum
regulatory requirements would be adequate and whether the bank’s risk appetite is adequate
or requires to be adjusted accordingly. The formal feedback process should also include links
to the banks’ business decisions, risk management process (e.g. using the ICAAP
methodologies, results in the approval process, limit setting, strategic processes, such as
capital planning or budgeting, and performance measurement). For that purpose, the Board
and Senior Management should lead and approve the assumptions, methodology, framework,
and outcome of the ICAAP. The usage of the ICAAP within the organisation and its alignment
with strategic decisions is referred to as the‘Use Test’.
26. The ICAAP should have an interactive relationship with other key processes within the
bank, including but not limited to, (i) business strategies, (ii) financial budgeting, (iii) risk
management, (iv) risk appetite setting, and (v) stress tests. Metrics related to capital allocation
and capital consumption should be included in the banks’ risk appetite. Conversely, the metrics
pertaining to business management and to risk management should take into consideration
the capital plan.
27. Conceptually, this circular process should be articulated according to the following
illustration and guidance. Each bank should design its own iterative process:
(i) The Board, Senior Management and the business lines should provide their
business plan and budget to construct the ICAAP;
(ii) The risk management function should analyse the feasibility and the risks
associated to such business plan;
(iii) The ICAAP should result in an estimation of the adequate level of capital given
the business and risk assumptions. This should be approved by the Board and
by Senior Management; and
(iv) In return, the ICAAP and capital requirements should feed back to the business
lines and the risk management function in order to steer the strategy of the bank.
28. The stakeholders should regularly interact with each other during the production of the
ICAAP in order to (i) obtain consistent forward-looking capital projections, and (ii) use capital
154

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 7]
CBUAE Classification: Public
projections consistently in their own decision-making. The stakeholders should include, but not
be limited to, the Board, Senior Management, the business lines, the risk management
function, and the finance function.
29. Each bank should demonstrate its appropriate usage of the ICAAP via the production
of thorough documentation, reporting covering the process, methodology, decision-making for
capital allocation, and strategy. Each bank should document the overall ICAAP design,
including key elements and the mechanism by which they interact with each other. Such
components should include, but not be limited to, the business strategies, risk appetite
statement, risk measurement methods, stress tests programme, and reporting across the
Group.
30. Regular reporting should be constructed to measure and monitor Pillar 2 risks in
addition to the annual ICAAP report exercise. Adequate metrics and associated limits should
be designed in relation to the bank’s size and complexity.
31. The Central Bank shall evaluate evidence that the bank has embraced the process for
business rather than regulatory reasons. Evidence should be provided that the management
has, through the ICAAP, made the business more efficient or less risky.
V. Capital Planning
32. Each bank should operate above the minimum capital requirements set by the Central
Bank. Each bank should have a capital plan approved by the Board. The objective of capital
planning is to ensure that:
(i) Each bank is compliant with minimum regulatory requirements;
(ii) The bank is viable and able to endure external economic changes; and
(iii) Each bank’s capital is calibrated to its risk profile in order to absorb unexpected
losses through time, including periods of economic downturn.
33. The ICAAP should be designed as a tool to adequately support these objectives. Each
bank’s management is expected to develop and maintain an appropriate strategy that ensure
the level of capital and the process to estimate such level should be commensurate with the
nature, scope, scale, size, complexity, and risks of each bank.
34. The ICAAP should be forward-looking taking into account both internal and external
drivers over a period covering three (3) to five (5) years. The capital planning should take into
account the bank’s business plan, its strategic development and the economic environment.
35. The multi-year capital forecast should be assessed and calibrated through two
perspectives:
(i) Pillar 1: The bank’s ability to fulfil all of its capital-related regulatory, supervisory
requirements, and demands; and
(ii) Pillar 2: The bank’s ability to cope with capital demands beyond that of the
regulatory requirements, in accordance to its risk profile.
36. Both perspectives should be function of the bank’s business plan. In addition, the
second perspective should incorporate a more granular, specific, and accurate measurement
of risks. Both perspectives should take into account the current, expected economic
environment, and consider the occurrence of stressed events.
37. If the bank identifies a shortfall in capital pertaining to either Pillar 1 or Pillar 2. It is
155

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 8]
CBUAE Classification: Public
expected to consider measures to maintain adequate capitalisation, reverse the trend, review
its strategy, and risk appetite.
38. For each internal stress test scenario for capital planning purposes, each bank is
expected to consider credible, quantifiable management actions that the bank could practically
take to mitigate any capital impact of stress scenarios. Such mitigating actions for ICAAP
stress scenarios may differ fromactions related to recovery planning. The timing and execution
of these management actions should be supported by appropriate trigger points of the bank’s
capital position, which may be informed by their internal risk appetite for capital adequacy.
When the bank’s capital ratios fall below its internal risk appetite, it is expected that the bank
is able to execute the necessary measures, i.e. the bank should explain how the capital
adequacy would be ensured/ restored (e.g. via a capital contingency plan). In assessing the
effectiveness of a management action, each bank should also consider the perceived
reputational impact (e.g. as viewed by the market, customers, government etc.) on taking such
an action in a stress. The results should be disclosed in the ICAAP report with and without