
Answer: One of the key components of the ICAAP is to determine whether the capital requirement under
the Standardised Approach is adequately reflecting the risk. Additional risks arising from investment in
subsidiaries should be addressed and assessed in the ICAAP. The bank should consider any subsidiary
including commercial, non-commercial, and insurance subsidiaries.
Question 11: The ICAAP has to be performed on consolidated level. Is it an additional
requirement to perform the ICAAP also at solo level or should the ICAAP also have a solo-level
analysis?
Answer: The ICAAP needs to address additional risks that are not covered (or not fully covered) under
Pillar 1. The ICAAP is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand-alone basis, at
regulatory consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should evaluate the capital
requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory consolidation.
However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the group structure of the bank.
The ICAAP guidance lays out the importance to consider the group structure when evaluating the banks'
capital adequacy, in Section IV "ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test”. The bank should be in a
position to report, measure and manage risks arising from its subsidiaries, branches, group entities and
from the consolidation process. The ICAAP should reflect the results of the bank’s analysis.
Consequently, the analysis should consider all relevant levels of the group structure (consolidated, solo,
entity level, and including significant affiliate investments). Additional risks may have to be addressed
as a specific additional capital add-on.
Question 12: Does the bank require a separate capital plan approved by the Board, or is it
sufficient to have the approved ICAAP that includes the capital plan?
173

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 26]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Answer: The capital management policy and the ICAAP complement each other. The policy sets the
framework and the capital management plan describes the capital management strategy and the steps
to achieve it in compliance with the policy. The capital management plan can be a separate document.
However, the ICAAP report should display the full picture, including an overview of the capital
management policy and the capital management plan related to the ICAAP outcomes.
Question 13: If a bank reports regulatory operational risk capital requirements using the BIA, can
the Standardised Approach be used to quantify the potential additional operational risk charge
under Pillar 2 if the capital requirement is higher under the SA compared to the BIA?
Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank must determine the most adequate methodology
to quantify the extent to which regulatory capital requirements for operational risk fail to adequately
address the true extent of its potential operational risk losses.
Question 14: Can the bank use the market risk stress test template as shared for Central Bank
Econometric Stress test exercise in its ICAAP?
Answer: The bank should determine the most adequate approach to quantify its risks. The quantification
methodology should obtain internal approval. The methodology needs to be explained, validated and
reasoned in detail as part of the methodology development and continuous model monitoring process.
Question 15: Does the Internal Audit (IA) review required under Section IX - Internal Control
Review contradict the requirement in Appendix 3.4, which requires banks to disclose the Internal
Audit findings in the ICAAP report?
Answer: The Central Bank is of the opinion that IA is not suffering a conflict of interest by reviewing a
bank’s ICAAP and by disclosing its general findings and findings specific to the ICAAP in the ICAAP
report. IAis involved twofold in the ICAAP report:
(i) IA has to perform a review of the ICAAP (process) periodically as part of the
audit function.
(ii) IA has to perform the prescribed review for each ICAAP, to be submitted within
3 months of the submission.
The ICAAP report shall contain the most recent (available) audit findings, their status, and actions taken.
(Note, that in the Capital Standards, para 13 under Introduction and Scope requires an annual review of
the capital framework.)
Question 16: Why does the Standard/ Guidance not address any specifics related to Islamic
banking?
Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank should determine the most adequate
methodology to quantify risks arising for Islamic banks in general and Islamic banking products
specifically.
Question 17: Being a branch of an international bank, is a third party validation required, as this
is already conducted at the parent company/ group level covering risk frameworks, systems and
models?
Answer: Branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks are required to validate the risk valuation
methodologies deployed in their UAE operations. If the branch or subsidiary is applying head office
methodologies, these should nevertheless be validated on branch or subsidiary level. In addition, the
branch or subsidiary has to have a full understanding of the applied methodologies as it cannot fully rely
on the head office.
174

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 27]
CBUAE Classification: Public
XI. Appendices
Appendix 1 - ICAAP: Mandatory disclosure form (Table 2)
134. All banks are required to disclose the following information as a separate cover sheet
when submitting the ICAAP report to the Central Bank:
Table 2 - ICAAP Mandatory Details
Bank XXXX
Date 20XX
Contact point name and contact details [name, email, phone number]
Scope of ICAAP (entities included) [legal entities in scope]
I (full name) in my role as CRO hereby confirm the following on the ICAAP report:
(i) We have identified all material risks and allocated capital [tick box if
accordingly completed]
(ii) We have set out a 3-5 year forward looking capital plan based on [tick box if
the strategic/ financial plan of the bank completed]
(iii) We have implemented a 3-5 year forward-looking stress test and [tick box if
measured the impact on the capital position of the bank completed]
(iv) The ICAAP has been [relevant details from Board committee (Managing
signed off by: Director /highest committee for foreign banks)]
(v) The ICAAP has been challenged/ by the Board (highest committee [tick box if
for foreign banks) and the nature of the challenge will be communicated to completed]
the Central Bank
CRO signature [signature]
Date [date]
175

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 28]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 2 - ICAAP Executive Summary
Table 3 - ICAAP Executive Summary
As of the reporting date of the ICAAP Pillar 1 in AED '000 Pillar 1 in AED '000 Pillar 2 in AED '000
Date Reporting date of the ICAAP, year with the most severe year with the most severe
e.g. 31/12/2022 impact for the most severe impact for the most severe
ST scenario, e.g. 31/12/2024. ST scenario, e.g. 31/12/2024.
Effective Capital Conservation Buffer 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
(CCB) (standard CCB of 2.5% + D­SIB Buffer
+ CCyB) in percentage points (in %)
Capital requirements under Business as Usual
Total Pillar 1 ­ ­ ­
Top 3 Pillar 2 capital requirements
Other Pillar 2 capital requirements
Total Pillar 2 ­
Minimum regulatory CAR requirement 10.50% 10.50% 10.50%
(incl. CCB)
Actual CAR Ratio
Total Capital Surplus/ deficit (Measured ­ ­ ­
including capital buffer requirements)
Minimum CET1 regulatory requirement 7.00% 7.00% 7.00%
(incl. CCB)
Actual CET1 Ratio
CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure ­ ­ ­
includes capital buffer requirements)
Stress Testing
Minimum regulatory CAR requirement 10.50% 10.50%
(excl. CCB)
Actual CAR Ratio under ST
Additive impact of ST on CAR
Surplus / (Deficit, i.e., additional capital ­ ­
required)
Minimum regulatory CET1 requirement 7.00% 7.00%
(excl. CCB)
Actual CET1 Ratio under ST
Additive impact of ST on CET1 ratio
CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure ­ ­
includes capital buffer requirements)
135. The ICAAP: Executive Summary Table (Table 3) above should be used for the ICAAP
report for the FY2022 ICAAP report. Each bank is required to download the most current
reporting template prior to finalizing the ICAAP report from the CBUAE IRR SYSTEM
(BRF/BASEL Portal) (CBUAE IRR), in the live environment for banks:
(i) Detailed reporting template including description (this report must be available
upon request); and
(ii) Executive Summary report (should form part of the ICAAP report Executive
Summary).
176

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 29]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 3 – Additional Requirements for the ICAAP
3.1 Governance and Risk Management
136. In the ICAAP report, each bank should provide high level summaries of key areas of
the risk framework of the bank: organisational structure, governance framework, risk
management function and the risk control function. The bank’s high level summaries should
refer to the relevant policies, procedures, manuals, and limits:
3.1.1 Organisational Structure
137. Each bank is expected to describe how
(i) The bank’s Board encourages a risk culture and prudent behaviours at all levels;
(ii) The Board Risk Committee (“BRC”) provides oversight and challenges the risk
exposures, risk appetite, and tolerance; and
(iii) The Risk Management Function (RMF) is structured, including reporting lines
and a summary of functions and responsibilities. The RMF should have
authority, responsibilities, and resources, to conduct risk related policies and the
risk management framework, and committees addressing the risk function.
3.1.2 Governance Framework
138. Each bank is expected to describe
(i) Board and Senior Management oversight (i.e. ICAAP governance framework
with a description of responsibilities, and the separation of functions);
(ii) Arrangements through which the Board and Senior Management define the
bank-wide risk appetite;
(iii) Relevant policies and risk appetite/limits/tolerance; and
(iv) How the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is held responsible for the methodology and
utilisation of the ICAAP, including
 reporting comprehensive, comprehensible information on risks; and
 advising the Board independently and objectively, enabling them to
understand the bank’s overall risk profile and to effectively discharge
their responsibilities.
3.1.3 Risk Management Function (RMF) and Risk Control Function
139. With regard to the bank’s risk management and control function, the ICAAP report is
expected to describe
(i) How the RMF has access to all business lines and other units that might have
possibility in generating risk , and to all relevant subsidiaries, and affiliates;
(ii) RMF processes/ practices/ mechanisms through which the bank effectively
identifies, measures, monitors, and reports material risks;
(iii) Mechanisms that ensure that the policies, methodologies, controls, and risk
monitoring systems are developed, validated, maintained and appropriately
177

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 30]
CBUAE Classification: Public
approved;
(iv) Processes to effectively identify and review the changes in risks arising from the
bank’s strategy, business model, new products, and changes in the economic
environment;
(v) Capital contingency plans for surviving unexpected events;
(vi) Risk management information systems (MIS) that ensure:
 That the bank distributes regular, accurate, and timely information on the
bank’s aggregate risk profile internally;
 The appropriate frequency and distribution of risk management
information;
 Early warning processes for pre-empting capital limit breaches; and
 Internal decision-making process are facilitated to allow the bank’s
management to authorize remedial actions before capital adequacy is
compromised.
(vii) The bank’s risk appetite as defined and used in the preparation of the ICAAP,
which should be consistently referenced for taking business decisions;
(viii) Risk quantification methodologies that are clearly articulated and documented,
including high-level risk measurement assumptions and parameters;
(ix) The approaches used to assess capital adequacy, which should include the
stress test framework and a well-articulated definition of capital adequacy;
(x) The capital planning process objectives, which should be forward-looking and
aligned to the bank’s business model and strategy;
(xi) Capital allocation processes including monitoring among business lines and
identified risk types (e.g. risk limits defined for business lines, entities, or
individual risks should be consistent to ensure the overall adequacy of the bank’s
internal capital resources); and
(xii) The boundary of entities included,
(xiii) The process of risk identification, and
(xiv) The bank’s risk inventory and classification, reflecting the materiality of risks and
the treatment of those risks through capital.
140. The internal control functions should play a vital role in contributing to the formation of
a sustainable business strategy. The ICAAP report should describe the following with regard
to internal control functions:
(i) The responsibilities of Internal Audit and Compliance concerning risk
management;
(ii) Any relevant internal and external audit reviews of risk management and the
conclusions reached; and
(iii) Outsourcing arrangements that have a material effect on internal capital
adequacy management, if any. This should elaborate the bank’s reliance on, or
178