
for sale', which typically constitute items of the banking book under certain accounting
standards. The intention is to hold such securities for some time or up to their full term and
not for trading purposes. Their sale does not represent sustainable income from normal
business.
- Held to maturity securities are those that the bank intends to hold indefinitely or until the
security reaches its maturity. Available for sale securities includes securities that are neither
held for trading purposes nor intended to be held till maturity. These are securities that the
bank intends to hold in the short or medium term, but may ultimately sell. Banking book relates
124

[Document: document.pdf, Page 127]
CBUAE Classification: Public
to positions that are held to maturity with no trading intent associated with them. Most loans
and advances are included in the banking book as they are intended to be held until maturity.
At times, there may also be liquid positions assigned to the banking book if they are intended
to be held over a longer term or to maturity.
- Extraordinary or irregular items as well as income derived from insurance claims. Again,
these items are to be excluded, as they are not sustainable sources of income for a bank.
Banks sometimes outsource certain activities, such as processing and maintaining data
on loan collection services to external service providers. Alternatively, banks may act as service
providers to other banks. This results in the payment or receipt of a fee for the outsourced service.
Basel provides the following guidance for the treatment of outsourcing fees paid or
received, while calculating the gross income for the purpose of calculating the operational risk
capital charge:
- Outsourcing fees paid by a bank to a service provider do not reduce the gross income of
the bank.
- Outsourcing fees received by a bank for providing outsourcing services are included in the
definition of gross income.
2. Alpha
Alpha is a fixed factor, set by the Basel Committee. It serves as a proxy for the industry-
wide relationship between operational risk loss experience of a bank and the aggregate level of
the operational risk exposure as reflected in its gross income.
Treatment of Negative Gross Income
The operational risk capital charge under the BIA is assumed that a bank has positive
gross income for all of the previous three years. However, some banks may have negative gross
income for some year(s), for example, resulting from poor financial performance. Figures for any
year in which annual gross income is negative or zero shall be excluded from both the numerator
and denominator when calculating the gross income average.
On this basis, the figures presented in the 3 years' calculations should reconcile (or be
reconcilable) with the bank’s audited financial statements.
b. Standardised Approach (SA)
The Standardised Approach (SA) represents a refinement along the continuum of
approaches for calculating the operational risk capital charge. While this approach also relies on
fixed factors as a percentage of gross income, it allows banks to use up to eight such factors,
called betas, depending upon their business lines.
The calculation of the operational risk charge under this approach is more risk sensitive
than the BIA.
The Standardised Approach Capital Charge
Under the Standardised Approach (SA), the operational risk capital charge is based on
the operational risk capital charges for individual business lines in a bank. The formula for
calculating the operational risk capital charge under the SA is as follows:
125

[Document: document.pdf, Page 128]
CBUAE Classification: Public
𝐾 = { ∑ max [∑(𝐺𝐼 × 𝛽 ), 0]}⁄3
𝑇𝑆𝐴 1−8 1−8
𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑠 1−3
Where:
K = the capital charge under the Standardised Approach
TSA
GI = the annual gross income in a given year, as defined in the Basic Indicator Approach
1-8
(BIA), for each of the eight business lines
β = a fixed percentage, set by the committee, relating the level of required capital to the
1-8
level of the gross income for each of the eight business lines
The Standardised Approach Components
The Standardised Approach identifies two main components to be used in calculating the
operational risk capital charge:
1. Gross Income of Eight Business Lines
Eight business lines are recommended for use by the Basel Committee in calculating the
operational risk charge under the SA. These business lines are considered as being
representative of the various kinds of businesses undertaken by banks. The identified business
lines briefed below are:
1. Corporate finance: banking arrangements and facilities provided to large commercial
enterprises, multinational companies, non-bank financial institutions, government
departments etc.
2. Trading and sales: treasury operations, buying and selling of securities, currencies and
commodities for proprietary and client accounts.
3. Retail banking: financing arrangements for private individuals, retail clients and small
businesses such as personal loans, credit cards, auto loans, etc. as well as other facilities
such as trust and estates and investment advice.
4. Commercial banking: financing arrangements for commercial enterprises, including
project finance, real estate, trade finance, factoring, leasing, guarantees, bills of exchange
etc.
5. Payment and settlement: activities relating to payments and collections, interbank funds
transfer, clearing and settlement.
6. Agency services: acting as issuing and paying agents for corporate clients, providing
custodial services etc.
7. Asset management: managing funds of clients on a pooled, segregated, retail,
institutional, open or closed basis under a mandate.
8. Retail brokerage: broking services provided to customers that are retail investors rather
than institutional investors.
Under the SA, the gross income is calculated for each of the eight business lines. It serves
as a proxy for the likely scale of exposure of that business line of the bank to operational risk.
Since all income has to be allocated to a business line, the sum of the gross income of the eight
business lines should equal the gross income for the bank as a whole
126

[Document: document.pdf, Page 129]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Just like in the Basic Indicator Approach, gross income for SA comprises net interest
income plus net non-interest income as defined in the Operational Risk section of the Standards
re Capital Adequacy.
2. Beta
Beta serves as a proxy for the industry-wide relationship between the operational risk loss
experience and the level of operational risk exposure as reflected in the gross income for a
business line. It is representative of the amount of loss that can be incurred by a bank given that
level of exposure (represented by gross income) in a business line.
The beta factors for the eight business lines as set by the Basel Committee are as follows:
Beta Business line Beta factor
β Corporate finance 18%
1
β Trading and sales 18%
2
β Retail banking 12%
3
β Commercial banking 15%
4
β Payment and settlement 18%
5
β Agency services 15%
6
β Asset management 12%
7
β Retail brokerage 12%
8
The beta factors have been set within a range of 12-18% depending upon the degree of
operational risk perceived in a business line. Thus, a 12% beta factor for retail banking indicates
that, in general, the operational risk in retail banking is lower than the operational risk in
commercial banking. The latter, which has a beta of 15%, carries a lower operational risk than,
for example, payment and settlement, which carries a beta factor of 18%.
Treatment of Negative Gross Income from Business lines
Some banks may have negative gross income for some years in some business lines.
This will result in a negative capital charge for the business line for that year. If the gross income
and the resulting capital charge of a specific business line is negative, the aggregate of the capital
charges across business lines for that year could still be positive, so long as the gross income
from other business lines is positive.
The following guidance applies for treatment of negative capital charges under the
Standardised Approach:
- In any given year, negative charges in business lines may offset positive capital charges
in other business lines without any limit.
- If the total capital charge, after offsetting negative and positive capital charges of business
lines, is negative for a given year, then the numerator for that year will be set to zero.
- If negative gross income distorts the operational risk capital charge calculated under the
SA, the Central Bank will consider appropriate supervisory action under Pillar 2.
Calculating the Operational risk capital charge under the Standardised Approach (SA)
The calculation of the capital charge for operational risk under the SA follows the following steps:
127

[Document: document.pdf, Page 130]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Step 1: Calculate the capital charge for each business line using its gross income and applicable
beta factor in year 1.
If the gross income from a business line is negative, the capital charge for that business line in
year 1 will be negative.
Step 2: Sum the eight capital charges of business lines for Year 1.
In a year, negative capital charges in some business lines may offset positive capital charges for
other business lines without any limit.
Steps 3 and 4: Follow steps 1 and 2 for the other two years.
Step 5: Calculate the 3-year average of the aggregated capital charges. Where the aggregate
capital charge across all business lines in a given year is negative, then the input to the numerator
for that year will be zero. The denominator will remain 3, representing the three years included in
the calculation.
Central Bank supports the use of the Beta given in the Standards re Capital Adequacy as well as
here in this guidance above as the basis for the capital calculations under SA.
c. Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA) Capital Charge
The Alternative Standardised Approach provides a different exposure indicator for two
of the eight business lines, retail banking and commercial banking. These activities essentially
comprise traditional banking business and still represent the main business of banks in several
jurisdictions.
Calculation of Operational Risk Capital Charge under Alternative Standardised
Approach (ASA)
Using the ASA, the operational risk capital charge for retail banking and commercial
banking will be based on the following formulas:
K = β x m x LA
RB RB RB
Where:
K = is the capital charge for retail banking
rb
m = 0.035
β = is the beta factor for retail banking (12%)
rb
LA = is the total outstanding retail loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of
rb
provisions), averaged over the past three years
K = β x m x LA
CB CB CB
Where:
K = is the capital charge for commercial banking
CB
m = 0.035
β = is the beta factor for commercial banking (15%)
CB
LA = is the total outstanding commercial loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of
CB
provisions), averaged over the past three years
128