[Document: PI.pdf, Page 111]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 11: BCBS standards provides banks two options to include large swap books in
the maturity or duration ladder (Convert the payments into their present values or to
calculate the sensitivity of the net present value). It would be useful to clarify which
methods are acceptable.
Currently both methods are acceptable but to move forward with sensitivity or NPV approach, the
bank shall seek Central Bank approval by providing all relevant documents.
Question 12: How to treat Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), PSEs and GREs that
qualify 0% risk weight as per Credit Risk Section of the Standards for the “Qualifying”
criteria of Specific Risk?
All MDBs are considered “qualifying” for this purpose and will receive a RW of 0%.
PSE that meets the conditions to be treated like a sovereign for credit risk can be considered
“government" for specific risk.
Commercial GREs that are treated as corporates for credit risk should also be treated as
corporates for market risk, for consistency.
Question 13: Can the securities issued by local government be reported under
government? If yes, what capital charge will be applied?
Only if they qualify for treatment as “sovereign” under the credit risk framework, a 0% can be
applied.
Question 14: What is meant by 'broadly' in paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Market Risk
Standard. Any threshold for the size of the movement e.g. a negative correlation of more
than 0.6?
No, there is no specific threshold. "Broadly" in this context means "with close approximation," to
allow for minor deviations from perfect correlation. The bank should have a sensible policy to
ensure that objective, which should be subject to supervisory review.
Question 15: What is meant by "long term participation"? What is included in it?
Long-term participations could take a number of forms, but a typical example would be
investments accounted at historical cost (and in this context, denominated in a foreign currency).
Paragraph 65 edited for clear understanding.
Question 16: Do the banks have to meet certain criteria to apply duration or maturity
approach or is the choice of method fully within the bank's discretion?
Maturity approach shall be the initial approach to be used. In case the bank requires to apply
Duration approach, then banks will have to seek Central Bank consent to switch between the
approaches.
Question 17: Under Specific interest rate risk, what will be the treatment for the debt
securities that are denominated and funded in domestic currency or foreign currency?
The preferential treatment/national discretion will be applicable to GCC sovereign’s papers
denominated and funded in local currency. In addition, exposures to the Federal Government and
Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight, if such exposures are denominated and funded in
AED or USD for a transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard.
After the transition period, 0% risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated
and funded in AED. Elsewise (if denominated and funded in foreign currency and if the debt
security is not GCC sovereign paper) rating and residual maturity shall be applied.
Question 18: Interest Rate Risk: How are derivatives treated from a market risk and credit
risk perspective that a foreign branch has with its head office and other branches of the
112

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 112]
CBUAE Classification: Public
group? Are all the derivative transactions under the umbrella of the group, can such
derivatives be excluded from the capital charge?
• Exemption is not eligible; all derivatives are to be included under credit and market risk.
• If the branch and the head office both have the same ISDA contract, netting and collateral
will not be eligible. However, if the ISDA contract contains only the deals from the branch,
then netting and collateral would be eligible.
• From Market risk perspective, if the bank's transactions are fully hedged, i.e. certain
derivatives with UAE customers are fully hedged back to back with the head office, then the
bank can offset for example the general and specific interest rate risks (based on
paragraphs 41 to 45). However, counterparty credit risk is still to be considered.
Question 19: Treatment of Options: Do banks have to meet certain criteria to apply the
simplified approach or the delta plus method? Or is the choice of method fully within
bank's discretion?
As per Para 82 (Standard), two alternative approaches apply to options. Banks that only
purchase options (rather than written options) can choose to use a simplified approach. Unless
all written option positions (under the simplified approach) are hedged by perfectly matched long
positions in exactly the same options, in which case no capital charge for market risk is
required. Banks with more complex option positions that also write options must use the delta-
plus approach rather than the simplified approach.
Question 20: Specific Interest Rate Risk: When the securities are not externally credit
rated, does the Central Bank have a list of specific treatment for issuers/ issues that are
unrated?
The Central Bank does not have a discretionary list of customers that do receive a special
treatment if an external rating is not available.
 The standard is exhaustive for all special treatments. For example: UAE and GCC
sovereign exposure that are funded and denominated in the domestic currency receive
0% RW (independent of the external rating of that sovereign)
 Exposures to the Federal Government and Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight,
if such exposures are denominated and funded in AED or USD for a transition period of
7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard. After the transition period, 0%
risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated and funded in AED.
Question 21: If a bank has exposure in equity investments in the trading book, how will
this exposure be treated under Market risk?
Risk-weighted assets for equity exposures arising from bank investments in funds that are held
in the trading book are subject to the market risk capital rules. Equity investments in funds will
be allocated to the trading book if the bank is able to “look through” to the fund’s underlying
assets (i.e. determine capital requirements based on the underlying positions held by the fund),
or where the bank has access both to daily price quotes and to the information contained in the
mandate of the fund. The reporting is based on the underlying positions held by the fund; it
could be covered under different areas of the market risk (e.g. FX, IRR and equity risk).
Question 22: As per paragraph 21 of the Market Risk Standard, it is mentioned that a
securitisation exposure subject to a risk weight of 1250% under the Central Bank
requirements (and therefore to a 100% specific risk charge under this Standard) may be
excluded from the calculation of capital for general market risk. Should the cap forthe
113

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 113]
CBUAE Classification: Public
UAE be 1250% or 952% as mentioned in paragraph 5 of the Introduction of the
standards?
Yes, the RW has to be capped at 952% as mentioned in the introduction of the standards.
V. Examples
Note that capital charges calculated in all examples below still need to be converted into
risk-weighted assets via Section IV in the Market Risk Standards.
A. Interest rate risk
1. Calculating the General Market risk charge
Calculate the general market risk capital charge for XYZ bank’s interest rate positions using the
maturity method.
Long position in a qualifying bond: Market value AED 13.33m. Residual maturity 8 years & coupon
8%
Long position in a government bond: Market value AED 75m. Residual maturity 2 months &
coupon 7%
Interest rate swap: Notional value AED 150m. Residual life of swap 8 years & bank receives
floating rate interest and pays fixed. Next interest fixing after 9 months
Long position in interest rate governmentbond future: Contract size AED 50mn.
The treatment of interest rate future positions assume a bank is exposed to a long position in a
6-month interest rate future bought today and settled in two months' time. The long position in
interest rates needs to be slotted into the 6-12 months’ time band because the maturity of the long
position is considered to be eight months. This is because the position is taken on today and will
be settled in two months with a maturity of six months.
Delivery date after 6 months & remaining maturity of the CTD government security 3.5 years.
Cheapest to deliver CTD refers to the underlying instrument that result in the greatest profit or the
least loss when delivered in satisfaction of futures contracts.
Calculating the general market risk capital charge comprises two main steps and a number of
sub-steps.
Step 1: Map each interest rate position
We are using the maturity method to map the positions. None of the bank’s positions have a
coupon of less than 3%, so we will use a ladder of 13 time bands. Each position is mapped to the
appropriate time band according to its residual maturity.
Step 2: calculate the total capital charge
Overall net open position
Zone 1 (months) Zone 2 (years) Zone 3 (years)
Time 0- 1-3 3-6 6-12 1- 2- 3-4 4- 5- 7-10 10- 15- >20
band 1 2 3 5 7 15 20
Weighted +0.15 - +1.05 +1.125 -
position 0.2 5.625
(AED m) +0.5
114

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 114]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The net open position is the sum of all the positions across all the time bands. The net open
position is AED 3m short, which leads to a capital charge at 100% of AED 3,000,000.
Calculation:
+75*0.2%=+0.15
-50*0.4%=-0.2
+150*0.7%=+1.05
+50*2.25%=+1.125
-150*3.75%=-5.625
+13.33*3.75%=+0.5
Vertical disallowance
The long position of AED 0.5m is offset against the short position of AED 5.625m as per the
marked area. The matched position is AED 0.5m and the net open position is AED -5.125m.
This leads to a capital charge of 10% of AED 0.5m, or AED 50,000
Zone 1 (months) Zone 2 (years) Zone 3 (years)
Time band 0- 1-3 3-6 6-12 1- 2- 3-4 4- 5- 7-10 10- 15- >20
1 2 3 5 7 15 20
Weighted +0.15 - +1.05 +1.125 -
position 0.2 5.625
(AED m) +0.5
Vertical -
disallowance 5.125
Calculation
Matched position = 0.5
Net open position = -5.625+0.5= -5.125
Horizontal disallowance
The third part of the capital charge is a charge for the horizontal disallowance. There are three
rounds of horizontal offsetting.
In round 1, the horizontal disallowance within each zone is calculated. In this example, charge
applies to zone 1 only because it is the only zone with a long and a short position. (With more
than one position). The short position, -0.2 is offset against the total long position, +1.2. The
matched position is 0.2 and the net open position is +1.
The capital charge for the horizontal disallowance within zone 1 is 40% of AED 0.2m, or AED
80,000
In round 2, calculate the horizontal disallowance between adjacent zones, i.e., between:
Zone 1 and zone 2
Zone 2 and zone 3
In this example, zone 1 and zone 2 both contain long positions, so there is no matched position
and therefore no offsetting between these zones. The long position of 1.125 in zone 2 is offset
against the short position of -5.125 in zone 3. The matched position is 1.125 and the net open