
single hedging set?
Yes, for interest rate derivatives, all rates within one base currency should be included in a single
hedging set.
Question E2: Is it possible to determine a hedging set in the absence of a netting set?
Yes, without a netting set, the hedging set would consist of a single transaction, and the add-on
would be simply the effective notional amount of that one transaction.
F. Maturity and Supervisory Duration
Question F1: For Supervisory Duration, should S and E be based on original maturity or
residual maturity?
Calculation of S and E should be computed relative to the current date, not the date at which the
trade was initiated; hence, they are most similar to residual maturity.
Question F2: When calculating the remaining maturity in business days, should we follow
the business calendar given in the master agreement, or the business calendar within the
jurisdiction in which the bank is operating?
The Basel Committee has provided guidance that the number of business days used for the
purpose of determining the maturity factor must be calculated appropriately for each transaction,
taking into account the market conventions of the relevant jurisdiction. The Central Bank follows
this approach as well.
Question F3: What is the maturity factor if the remaining maturity is greater than 250
business days?
In that case, the maturity factor for the CCR calculations is equal to 1.0.
Question F4: What would be the maturity of a derivative with multiple exchanges of
notional over a period of time?
The maturity date is the date of the final exchange or payment under the contract.
Question F5: What is the Maturity Factor for deals such as callable range accruals where
the call date is less than 1 year, but the deal maturity is more than 1 year?
Since the deal maturity is more than one year, the Maturity Factor would be equal to 1.0.
49

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 49]
CBUAE Classification: Public
G. Other
Question G1: For certain capital calculations in the past, exchange rate contracts with an
original maturity of 14 calendar days or less were excluded from certain capital
requirements. Is that applicable for the CCR Standards?
No, all in-scope exchange rate contracts must be included, regardless of original or remaining
maturity.
Question G2: A single hedging set might include derivatives on underlying rates, prices,
or entities that span different Basel categories (e.g. corporates, financials, sovereigns); do
these need to be calculated separately in order to compute and report RWA in the format
required by the reporting template?
No, the risk-weight, and the category for reporting in the Central Bank’s template, depends on the
nature of the counterparty, not the nature of the underlying reference asset. The counterparty for
any netting set will fall into one and only one category for risk weighting and for reporting.
Question G3: For a variable notional swap, how should the average notional be calculated?
Use the time-weighted average notional in the CCR calculations.
Question G4: Should the current spot rate be used to compute adjusted notional?
Yes, the current spot rate should be used.
Question G5: Bank ask in case of calculating discounted counterparty exposure is a
double count and will inflate CVA Capital charge given SA-CCR EAD already factors in
maturity adjustment while computing adjusted notional which is product of trade notional
& supervisory duration?
The use of the discount factor in the CVA capital charge does not result in double counting. While
there is superficial similarity between the supervisory duration (SD) adjustment in SA-CCR and
the discount factor (DF) in CVA, they are actually capturing different aspects of risk exposure.
The use of SD in SA-CCR adjusts the notional amount of the derivatives to reflect its sensitivity
to changes in interest rates, since longer-term derivatives are more sensitive to rate changes than
are shorter-term derivatives. In contrast, the use of DF in the CVA calculationreflects the fact that
a bank is exposed to CVA risk not only during the first year of a derivative contract, but over the
life of the contract; the DF term recognizes the present value of the exposure over the life of the
contract. Thus, these two factors, although they have similar functional forms and therefore
appear somewhat similar, are not in fact duplicative.
50

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 50]
CBUAE Classification: Public
V. Illustrations of EAD Calculations
A. Illustration 1
Consider a netting set with three interest rates derivatives: two fixed versus floating interest rate
swaps and one purchased physically settled European swaption. The table below summarizes
the relevant contractual terms of the three derivatives. All notional amounts and market values in
the table are given in USD. We also know that this netting set is not subject to a margin agreement
and there is no exchange of collateral (independent amount/initial margin) at inception.
Trade # Nature Residual Base Notional Pay Receive Market value
maturity currency (thousands) Leg (*) Leg (*) (thousands)
1 Interest rate 10 years USD 10,000 Fixed Floating 30
swap
2 Interest rate 4 years USD 10,000 Floating Fixed -20
swap
3 European 1 into 10 years EUR 5,000 Floating Fixed 50
swaption
(*) For the swaption, the legs are those of the underlying swap.
The EAD for un-margined netting sets is given by:
EAD = 1.4 * (RC + PFE)
1. Replacement Cost Calculation
The replacement cost is calculated at the netting set level as a simple algebraic sum (floored at
zero) of the derivatives’ market values at the reference date. Thus, using the market values
indicated in the table (expressed in thousands):
RC = max {V - C; 0} = max {30 - 20 + 50; 0} = 60
Since V-C is positive (equal to V of 60,000), the value of the multiplier is 1, as explained in the
Standards.
2. Potential Future Exposure Calculation
All the transactions in the netting set belong to the interest rate asset class. So the Add-on for
interest rate class must be calculated as well as the multiplier since
PFE = multiplier × Add-on
agg
For the calculation of the interest rate add-on, the three trades must be assigned to a hedging set
(based on the currency) and to a maturity category (based on the end date of the transaction). In
this example, the netting set is comprised of two hedging sets, since the trades refer to interest
rates denominated in two different currencies (USD and EUR). Within hedging set “USD”, Trade
1 falls into the third maturity category (>5 years) and Trade 2 falls into the second maturity
category (1-5 years). Trade 3 falls into the third maturity category (>5 years) of hedgingset “EUR”.
51

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 51 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
S and E represent the start date and end date, respectively, of the time period referenced by the
interest rate transactions.
Trade Hedging Time Notional S E
# set bucket (thousands)
1 USD 3 10,000 0 10
2 USD 2 10,000 0 4
3 EUR 3 5,000 1 11
The following table illustrates the steps typically followed for the add-on calculation:
Steps Activities
1. Calculate Effective Notional Calculate supervisory duration
Calculate trade-level adjusted notional as trade
notional (in domestic currency) × supervisory
duration
Effective notional for each maturity category =
Σ(trade-level adjusted notional × supervisory delta
× maturity factor), with full offsetting for each of the
three maturity categories, in each hedging set
(that is, same currency)
2. Apply Supervisory Factors Add-on for each maturity category in a hedging set
(that is, same currency) = Effective Notional
Amount for maturity category × interest rate
supervisory factor
3. Apply Supervisory Correlations Add-on for each hedging set = Σ(Add-ons for
maturity categories), aggregating across maturity
categories for a hedging set. One hedging set for
each currency.
4. Aggregate Simple summation of the add-ons for the different
hedging sets
Calculate Effective Notional Amount
The adjusted notional of each trade is calculated by multiplying the notional amount by the
calculated supervisory duration SD as defined in the Standards.
d = Trade Notional × SD = Trade Notional × (exp(-0.05×S) – exp(-0.05 × E)) / 0.05
Notional Time
Trade Amount Bucket S E Supervisory Duration SD Adjusted Notional d
Trade 1 10,000,000 3 0 10 7.869386806 78,693,868.06
Trade 2 10,000,000 2 0 4 3.625384938 36,253,849.38
Trade 3 5,000,000 3 1 11 7.485592282 37,427,961.41
52