[Document: document.pdf, Page 41]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Instrument M S E
Interest rate or credit default swap maturing in 10 years 10 0 10
10-year interest rate swap, forward starting in 3 years 13 3 13
Forward rate agreement for time period starting in 125 days and
1 0.5 1
ending in one year
Cash-settled European swaption referencing 5-year interest
0.5 0.5 5.5
rate swap with exercise date in 125 days
Physically-settled European swaption referencing 5-year
5.5 0.5 5.5
interest rate swap with exercise date in 125 days
Interest rate cap or floor specified for semi-annual interest
6 0 6
with maturity 6 years
Option on a 5-year maturity bond, with the last possible
1 1 5
exercise date in 1 year
3-month Eurodollar futures maturing in 1 year 1 1 1.25
Futures on 20-year bond maturing in 2 years 2 2 22
6-month option on 2-year futures on a 20-year bond 2 2 22
13. Note there is a distinction between the period spanned by the underlying transaction and
the remaining maturity of the derivative contract. For example, a European interest rate swaption
with expiry of 1 year and the term of the underlying swap of 5 years has S=1 year and E=6 years.
An interest rate swap, or an index CDS, maturing in 10 years has S=0 years and E=10 years. The
parameters S and E are only used for interest rate derivatives and credit-related derivatives.
E. Aggregation of Maturity Category Effective Notional Amounts
14. The Standards allows banks to choose between two options for aggregating the effective
notional amounts that are calculated for each maturity category for interest rate derivatives. The
primary formula is the following:
√𝐷12+𝐷22+𝐷32+1.4×(𝐷1×𝐷2)+1.4×(𝐷2×𝐷3)+0.6×(𝐷1×𝐷3)
15. In this formula, D1 is the effective notional amount for maturity category 1, D2 is the
effective notional amount for maturity category 2, and D3 is the effective notional amount for
maturity category 3. As defined in the Standards, maturity category 1 is less than one year,
maturity category 2 is one to five years, and maturity category 3 is more than five years.
16. As an alternative, the bank may choose to combine the effective notional values as the
simple sum of the absolute values of D1, D2, and D3 within a hedging set, which has the effect
of ignoring potential diversification benefits. That is, as an alternative to the calculation above, the
bank may calculate:
|𝐷1|+|𝐷2|+|𝐷3|
This alternative is a simpler calculation, but is more conservative in the sense that it always
produces a larger result. To see this, note that the two calculations would give identical results
only if the values 1.4 and 0.6 in the first formula are replaced with the value 2.0. Since the actual
coefficient values are smaller than 2.0, the first formula gives a smaller result than the second
formula. Choosing the second formula is equivalent to choosing to use the first formula with the
39

[Document: document.pdf, Page 42]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1.4 and 0.6 values replaced by 2.0, increasing measured CCR exposure and therefore minimum
required capital.
F. Maturity Factor
17. Note that the Standards requires the use of a standard 250-day trading or business year
for the calculation of the maturity factor and the MPOR. The view of the Central Bank is that a
single, standardised definition of one year for this purpose will enhance comparability across
banks and over time. However, the BCBS has indicated that the number of business days used
for the purpose of determining the maturity factor be calculated appropriately for each transaction,
taking into account the market conventions of the relevant jurisdiction. If a bank believes that use
of a different definition of one year is appropriate, or would significantly reduce its compliance
burden, the bank may discuss the matter with bank supervisors.
G. Delta Adjustment
18. Supervisory delta adjustments reflect the fact that the notional value of a transaction is not
by itself a good indication of the associated risk. In particular, exposure to future market
movements depends on the direction of the transaction and any non-linearity in the structure.
19. With respect to direction, a derivative may be long exposure to the underlying risk factor
(price, rate, volatility, etc.), in which case the value of the derivative will move in the same direction
as the underlying – gaining value with increases, losing value with decreases – and the delta is
positive to reflect this relationship. The alternative is that a derivative may be short exposure to
the underlying risk factor, in which case the value of the derivative moves opposite to the
underlying – losing value with increases, and gaining value with decreases – and thus the delta
is negative.
20. The non-linearity effects are prominent with transactions that involve contingent payoffs
or option-like elements. Options and CDOs are notable examples. For such derivative
transactions, the impact of a change in the price of the underlying instrument is not linear or one-
for-one. For example, with an option on a foreign currency, when the exchange rate changes by
a given amount, the change in the value of the derivative – the option contract – will almost always
be less than the change in the exchange rate. Moreover, the amount by which the change is less
than one-for-one will vary depending on a number of factors, including the current exchange rate
relative to the exercise price of the option, the time remaining to expiration of the option, and the
current volatility of the exchange rate. Without an adjustment for that difference, the notional
amounts alone would be misleading indications of the potential for counterparty credit risk.
21. The supervisory delta adjustments for all derivatives are presented in the table below,
which is repeated from the CCR Standards. These adjustments are defined at the trade level, and
are applied to the adjusted notional amounts to reflect the direction of the transaction and its non-
linearity.
22. Note that the supervisory delta adjustments for the various option transactions are closely
related to the delta from the widely used Black-Scholes model of option prices, although the risk-
free interest rate – which would ordinarily appear in this expression – is not included. In general,
banks should use a forward price or rate, ideally reflecting any interim cash flows on the underlying
instrument, as P in the supervisory delta calculation.
40

[Document: document.pdf, Page 43]
CBUAE Classification: Public
23. The expression for the supervisory delta adjustment for CDOs is based on attachment and
detachment points for any tranche of the CDO. The precise specification (including the values of
the embedded constants of 14 and 15) is the result of an empirical exercise conducted by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to identify a relatively simple functional form that would
provide a sufficiently close fit to CDO sensitivities as reported by a set of globally active banks.
Supervisory Delta Adjustments
Supervisory Delta
Type of Derivative Transaction
Adjustment
Purchased Call Option F
Purchased Put Option F-1
Sold Call Option -F
Sold Put Option 1-F
Purchased CDO Tranche (Long Protection) G
Sold CDO Tranche (Short Protection) -G
Any Other Derivative Type, Long in the Primary Risk Factor +1
Any Other Derivative Type, Short in the Primary Risk Factor -1
Definitions
For options:
ln(𝑃/𝐾)+0.5×𝜎2𝑇
𝐹 =Φ( )
𝜎√𝑇
In this expression, P is the current forward value of the underlying price or rate, K is the exercise
or strike price of the option, T is the time to the latest contractual exercise date of the option, 
is the appropriate supervisory volatility from Table 2, and Φ is the standard normal cumulative
density function. A supervisory volatility of 50% should be used on swaptions for all currencies.
For CDO tranches:
15
𝐺 =
(1+14𝐴)(1+14𝐷)
In this expression, A is the attachment point of the CDO tranche and D is the detachment point
of the CDO tranche.
41

[Document: document.pdf, Page 44]
CBUAE Classification: Public
H. Complex Derivatives
24. The Standards requires that complex trades with more than one risk driver (e.g. multi-
asset or hybrid derivatives) must be allocated to more than one asset class when the material risk
drivers span more than one asset class. The full amount of the trade must be included in the PFE
calculation for each of the relevant asset classes. Asset-class allocation of complex derivatives is
a point of national discretion in the Basel framework, and the Central Bank believes that requiring
banks to identify such trades and allocate them accordingly places appropriate responsibility on
banks that choose to engage in such trades.
25. Examples of derivatives that reference the basis between two risk factors and are
denominated in a single currency (basis transactions) include three-month Libor versus six-month
Libor, three-month Libor versus three-month T-Bill, one-month Libor versus OIS rate, or Brent
Crude oil versus Henry Hub gas. These examples are provided as illustrations, and do not
represent an exhaustive list.
26. Hedging sets for derivatives that reference the volatility of a risk factor (volatility
transactions) must follow the same hedging set construction outlined in the Standards for
derivatives in that asset class; for example, all equity volatility transactions form a single hedging
set. Examples of volatility transactions include variance and volatility swaps, or options on realized
or implied volatility.
I. Unrated Reference Assets
27. The supervisory factor for credit derivatives depends on the credit rating of the underlying
reference asset. The Basel framework does not provide a specific treatment of unrated reference
assets. The Central Bank believes that credit derivatives on unrated reference entities are likely
to be rare. However, for the sake of completeness, the Standards requires that any such credit
derivatives be treated in a manner that is broadly consistent with the treatment of unrated entities
in other aspects of the risk-based capital framework, through use of a Supervisory Factor
corresponding to BBB or BB ratings as described in the Standards.
28. For an entity for which a credit rating is not available, a bank should use the Supervisory
Factor corresponding to BBB. However, where the exposure is associated with an elevated risk
of default, the bank should use the Supervisory Factor for BB. In this context, “elevated risk of
default” should also be understood to include instances in which it is difficult or impossible to
assess adequately whether the exposure has high risk of loss due to default by the obligor. A
bank trading credit derivatives referencing unrated entities should conduct their own analysis to
examine this risk.
J. Commodity Derivatives
29. Note that the Standards defines the term “commodity type” for purposes of calculation of
exposure for CCR. A commodity type is defined as a set of commodities with broadly similar risk
drivers, such that the prices or volatilities of commodities of the same commodity type may
reasonably be expected to move with similar direction and timing and to bear predictable
relationships to one another. For example, a commodity type such as coal might include several
types of coal, and a commodity type such as oil might include oil of different grades from different
sources. The prices of commodities of a given type may not move precisely in lock step, but they
are likely to move in the same direction at roughly the same time, due to their dependence on
common forces in commodity markets. Long and short trades within a single commodity type can
be fully offset.
42

[Document: document.pdf, Page 45]
CBUAE Classification: Public
30. For commodity derivatives, defining individual commodity types is operationally difficult. In
fact, it is generally not possible to fully specify all relevant distinctions between commodity types,
and as a result, a single commodity type is likely to include individual commodities that in practice
differ to some extent in the dynamic behaviour they exhibit. As a result, not all basis risk is likely
to be captured. Nonetheless, banks should attempt to minimize unrecognized basis risk through
sound definitions of commodity types.
31. The Standards requires a bank to establish appropriate governance processes for the
creation and maintenance of the list of defined commodity types used by the bank for CCR
calculations, with clear definitions and independent internal review or validation processes to
ensure that commodities grouped as a single type are in fact similar. A bank can only use the
specifically defined commodity types it has established through its adequately controlled internal
processes.
32. Trades within the same commodity hedging set (Energy, Metals, Agriculture, and Other)
enjoy partial offsetting through the use of correlation values established in the Standards, with
correlation values varying by asset subclass. More specifically, partial offsetting applies only to
the systematic component, not the issuer-specific or idiosyncratic component. Note that Electricity
is a sub-class of the Commodity asset class, but is itself part of the broader Energy hedging set,
rather than constituting a distinct hedging set.
K. Single-Name and Index Derivatives
33. For credit derivatives, there is one credit reference entity for each reference debt