[Document: document.pdf, Page 31]
CBUAE Classification: Public
balance sheet component to calculate the credit risk-weighted assets. Any exposure that is past
due for more than 90 days should be reported under this asset class, net of specific provisions
(including partial write-offs). This differs from the IFRS 9 classification as the past due asset
includes any loans more than 90 days past due.
K. Higher-risk categories
Higher risk weights may be applied to assets that reflect higher risks. A bank may decide
to apply a risk weight of 150% or higher.
L. Other Assets
Assets in this class include any other form of exposure that does not fit into the specific
exposure classes. The standard risk weight for all other assets will be 100%, with the exception
of the following exposures:
a) 0% risk weight applied to:
i. cash owned and held at the bank or in transit;
ii. Gold bullion held at the bank or held in another bank on an allocated basis, to the extent
the gold bullion assets are backed by gold bullion liabilities;
iii. All the deductions from capital according to the Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital
Adequacy in the UAE, for reconciliation between the regulatory return and the
audited/reviewed financial statement.
b) 20% risk weight:
i. Cash items in the process of collection.
c) 100% risk weight:
i. Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to which a credit risk
standardised approach applies, unless they are deducted from regulatory capital
according to section 3.9 of Tier capital supply of Standards Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
(listed entity)
ii. Investments in commercial entities below the materiality thresholds according to section 5
of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (listed);
iii. Premises, plant and equipment and other fixed assets,
iv. Prepaid expenses such as property taxes and utilities,
v. All other assets
d) 150% risk weight:
i. The amount of investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to
which a credit risk standardised approach applies unless they are deducted from
regulatory capital deduction according to section 3.9 of Tier capital supply of Standards
of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (unlisted entity);
ii. Investments in commercial entities below the materiality thresholds according to section
5 of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (unlisted entity).
e) 250% risk weight:
29

[Document: document.pdf, Page 32]
CBUAE Classification: Public
i. Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to which a credit risk
standardised approach, applies unless they are deducted from regulatory capital
according to the threshold deduction described in section 3.10 of Tier capital supply of
Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
ii. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) which depend on future profitability and arise from temporary
differences unless they are not deducted under threshold deductions described in section
4 of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
f) 1250% risk weight:
i. Investments in commercial entities in excess of the materiality thresholds must be risk-
weighted at 1/ (Minimum capital requirement) (i.e. 1250%).
M. Off-Balance Sheet Items: Credit Conversion Factors
Under the standardised approach, off-balance sheet items are converted into credit
exposure equivalents with Credit Conversion Factors (CCFs). CCFs approximate the potential
amount of the off-balance sheet facility that would have been drawn down by the client by the
time of its default. The credit equivalent amount is treated in a manner similar to an on-balance
sheet instrument and is assigned the risk weight appropriate to the counterparty. The categories
of off-balance sheet and its appropriate CCFs are outlined in the standard.
Calculating credit equivalent amounts for off-balance sheet item:
(Principal amount – provision amount) * CCF = Credit equivalent amount.
Bank guarantees
There are two types of bank guarantees viz. financial guarantees (direct credit substitutes);
and performance guarantees (transaction-related contingent items).
Financial guarantees essentially carry the same credit risk as a direct extension of credit
i.e. the risk of loss is directly linked to the creditworthiness of the counterparty against whom a
potential claim is acquired, and therefore attracts a CCF of 100%.
Performance guarantees are essentially transaction-related contingencies that involve an
irrevocable undertaking to pay a third party in the event the counterparty fails to fulfil or perform
a contractual non-financial obligation. In such transactions, the risk of loss depends on the event
which need not necessarily be related to the creditworthiness of the counterparty involved.
Performance guarantees attract a CCF of 50%.
Commitments
The credit conversion factor applied to a commitment is dependent on its maturity. Banks
should use original maturity to report these instruments.
Longer maturity commitments are considered to be of higher risk because there is a longer
period between credit reviews and less opportunity to withdraw the commitment if the credit quality
of the customer deteriorates. Commitments with an original maturity up to one year and
commitments with an original maturity over one year will receive a CCF of 20% and 50%,
respectively.
However, any commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank
without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a
borrower’s creditworthiness, will receive a 0% CCF. This requires that banks conduct formal
reviews of the facilities regularly and this provides the opportunity to take note of any perceived
30

[Document: document.pdf, Page 33]
CBUAE Classification: Public
deterioration in credit quality and thereby cancellability by the bank.
For exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk, the exposure amount to be used
in the determination of RWA is to be calculated according to the standardised approach for
Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR).
N. Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM)
Only eligible collateral, guarantees, credit derivatives, and netting under legally
enforceable bilateral agreements (such as ISDAs) are eligible for CRM purposes. For example, a
commitment to provide collateral or a guarantee is not recognised as an eligible CRM technique
for capital adequacy purposes until the commitment to do so is actually fulfilled.
No additional CRM will be recognised for capital adequacy purposes on exposures where
the risk weight is mapped from a rating specific to a debt security where that rating already reflects
CRM. For example, if the rating has already taken into account a guarantee pledged by the parent
or sovereign entity, then the guarantee shall not be considered again for credit risk mitigation
purposes.
Banks should ensure that all minimum legal and the operational requirements set out in
the Standard are fulfilled.
CRM treatment by substitution of risk weights
The method of substitution of risk weight is applicable for the recognition of the guarantees
and credit derivatives as CRM techniques under both the simple approach and the comprehensive
approach. Under this method, an exposure is divided into two portions: the portion covered by credit
protection and the remaining uncovered portion.
For guarantees and credit derivatives, the value of credit protection to be recorded is the
nominal value. However, where the credit protection is denominated in a currency different from
that of the underlying obligation, the covered portion should be reduced by a standard supervisory
haircut defined in the Credit Risk Standard for the currency mismatch.
For eligible collateral, the value of credit protection to be recorded is its market value,
subject to a minimum revaluation frequency of 6 months for performing assets, and 3 months for
past due assets (if this is not achieved then no value can be recognised). Where the collateral
includes cash deposits, certificates of deposit, cash funded credit-linked notes, or other
comparable instruments, which are held at a third-party bank in a non-custodial arrangement and
unconditionally and irrevocably pledged or assigned to the bank, the collateral will be allocated
the same risk weight as that of the third party bank.
Simple Approach
Under simple approach, the eligible collateral must be pledged for at least the life of the
exposure, i.e. maturity mismatch is not allowed.
Where a bank has collateral in the form of shares and uses the simple approach, a 100%
risk weight is applied for listed shares and 150% risk weight for unlisted shares.
Comprehensive Approach
Under the comprehensive approach, the collateral adjusted value is deducted from the
risk exposure (before assigning the risk weight). Standard supervisory haircuts as defined in the
31

[Document: document.pdf, Page 34]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Credit Risk Standard are applied to the collateral because collateral is subject to risk, which could
reduce the realisation value of the collateral when liquidated.
If the exposure and collateral are held in different currencies, the bank must adjust
downwards the volatility- adjusted collateral amount to take into account possible future
fluctuations in exchange rates.
There is no distinction for applying supervisory haircuts between main index equities and
equities listed at a recognised exchange. A 25% haircut applies to all equities.
Capital Add-on under Pillar 2
While the use of CRM techniques reduces or transfers credit risk, it gives rise to other
risks that need to be adequately controlled and managed. Banks should take all appropriate steps
to ensure the effectiveness of the CRM and to address related risks. Where these risks are not
adequately controlled, the Central Bank may impose additional capital charges or take other
supervisory actions as outlined in Pillar 2 Standard.
III. Shari’ah Implementation
Banks that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of
Shari’ah laws and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Credit Risk Standard,
shall, for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the relevant risk
weighted asset in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner compliant with the
Shari’ah laws.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
IV. Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
During the industry consultation the Central Bank received a number of questions related to
the Credit Risk Standard and Guidance. To ensure consistent implementation of the Credit
Risk Standard in the UAE, the main questions are addressed hereunder.
Claims on Sovereigns
Question 1: What does the 7-year transition for USD exposure to the Federal Government
and Emirates Government mean for banks?
During the 7-year transition period, banks are required to have a forward looking plan on USD
exposures to Federal and Emirate governments. Banks shall monitor and manage the impact of
the change in risk weights of exposures in USD on the bank’s capital position. Exposures in USD
as well as the banks’ capital plans will be monitored by the Central Bank.
Question 2: What is the appropriate risk weight for exposures to other GCC sovereigns?
A 0% risk weight is applied to GCC Sovereign exposures denominated and funded in the domestic
currency of their country. However, exposures in non-domestic currencies (including USD) shall
be risk weighted according to the rating of sovereigns.
Question 3: Does the Central Bank allow banks to apply unsolicited ratings in the same
32

[Document: document.pdf, Page 35]
CBUAE Classification: Public
way as solicited ratings?
Bank should use ratings determined by an eligible External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAIs).
Only solicited ratings are allowed to be used. The Central Bank only allows unsolicited ratings
from an eligible ECAI for the UAE federal government. All other exposures shall be risk weighted
using solicited ratings.
Claims on Non-Commercial Public Sector Enterprises
Question 4: Can the bank include claims on a GCC PSE denominated in their local currency
under claims of Non-Commercial PSEs?
No, the preferential risk weights for Non-Commercial PSEs are only granted for UAE entities.
Question 5: Do all the seven criteria stated in the credit risk guidance have to be met or
any of the criterion can be met to classify an entity as non-commercial PSE? In addition,
does the bank just follow the so-called GRE list or shall the bank apply the criteria to
classify entities as non-commercial PSE?
To classify entities as Non-commercial PSE, the Central Bank will consider in its approval process
all seven criteria and in principle all seven criteria must be satisfied. A bank may approach the
Central Bank, if the bank thinks that certain entities satisfy the criteria for a Non-commercial PSE
that can be added to the GRE list. If banks have information that would lead to changes to of the
GRE List, banks should inform the Central Bank accordingly.
Question 6: The guidance requires that the bank’s internal audit/ compliance departments
perform regular reviews to ensure the PSE and GRE classification complies with the
Central Bank's GRE list. What is the expected frequency of such a review?
The frequency of internal audit/compliance should be commensurate with the bank's size, the
nature and risks of bank’s operations and the complexity of the bank.
Claims on Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs)
Question 7: Does an MDB need to satisfy all of the stated criteria or any one of the criteria
to apply a 0% risk-weight?
Exposures to MDBs may receive a risk weight of 0% if they fulfill all five criteria. However, the
Central Bank does not decide whether an MDB satisfies the criteria or not. The Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision (BCBS) evaluates each MDB’s eligibility for inclusion in the list of 0% RW
on a case-by-case basis.
Claims on Banks
Question 8: For claims on an unrated bank, can the bank apply the preferential rating as
per risk weight table for short-term exposures?
A risk weight of 50% for long term exposures and 20% for short term exposures are applied to
claims on unrated banks. However, no claim on an unrated bank may receive a risk weight lower
than the risk weight applied to claims on its sovereign of incorporation, irrespectively of the
exposure being short-term or long-term.
Claims on Corporates
Question 9: Should loans to High Net Worth Individuals (HNIs) be reported under claims in
regulatory retail portfolio or claims on corporate?
33

[Document: document.pdf, Page 36]
CBUAE Classification: Public
No, HNI classification should be aligned with the BRF explanatory note and should be reported
under claims on corporate.
Question 10: What is the treatment for SMEs and in which asset class are SME exposures
reported?
Answer: Banks have to follow BRF explanatory note 6.21 for the definition of SME. Exposures
classified as SME according to BRF explanatory note, are for capital adequacy reporting purposes
classified as “Retail SME” and “corporate SME”. SME exposures fulfilling all of four retail criteria
as stated in Section III G of the Credit Risk Standard are reported under “claims on retail”. SME
that do not fulfill the retail criteria are treated under claims on corporates as per Section III F of
the Credit Risk Standard.
Claims secured by Residential Property
Question 11: Does the bank have to assign 100% RW for customers with more than 4
properties?
Yes, if a customer has more than 4 properties, a bank has to report all properties of that customer
as claims on commercial properties and the risk weight of the properties shall be 100%.
Question 12: Can the bank apply a preferential RW of 35% for properties under
construction?
No, the preferential risk weight of 35% applies only to completed properties, as under
construction, residential properties incur higher risks than buying completed properties.
Claims Secured by Commercial Real Estate
Question 13: Do loans with a collateral of a completed commercial property, irrespective
of their purpose, fall under Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate?
No, this asset class is for exposures specifically for the purpose of buying/ constructing
commercial property, i.e. real estate loans.
Higher-risk Categories
Question 14: What type of exposure would fall under higher risk categories? What is the
appropriate RW for higher risk categories?
Almost all the exposures that receive 150% risk weight are reported under the respective asset
class. The Central Bank will apply a 150% or higher risk weight, reflecting the higher risks
associated with assets that require separate disclosure. For example, but not limited to, real estate
acquired in settlement of debt and not liquidated within the statutory period shall be reported under
the higher risk asset class with a 150% RW.
Other Assets
Question 15: The Credit Risk Standard states in section 5, that equity investment in
commercial entities that are below the thresholds shall be risk weighted at 150% if the
entity is unlisted. However, if the banking group has full control over the commercial
subsidiary, can a lower risk weight be applied?
A 150% risk weight reflects the additional risk the commercial subsidiary underpins on unlisted
equity (absence of regulatory requirement, illiquidity, etc.) exposures than listed equity exposures.
34

[Document: document.pdf, Page 37]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Issuer and Issuance Rating
Question 16: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond?
The bank must classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and
assign risk weight based on the rating of the entity.
Question 17: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a bond
with a guarantee by the sovereign specific to the issuance and the bond gets a higher
rating than the entity itself?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign risk weight
based on the rating of the bond.
Question 18: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a bond
with a lower rating than entity?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign risk weight
based on the rating of the bond.
Question 19: What will be the treatment if an unrated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond (unrated), but the bond has the guarantee from sovereign, specific and direct
guarantee?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign the risk
weight based on the bond rating (unrated). The guarantee should be used for credit risk mitigation
by substituting the risk weight of the bond using the claims on sovereign mapping table (e.g. AAA
- 0% risk weight).
Question 20: What will be the treatment if an unrated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond with a guarantee given by the sovereign to the entity (and not the bond)?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign the risk
weight related to the unrated entity. The guarantee should be used for credit risk mitigation by
substituting the risk weight of the bond using the claims on corporate mapping table (e.g. AAA -
20% risk weight).
Off Balance-sheet Items
Question 22: The Credit Risk Standards states that, “Any commitments that are
unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank without prior notice, or that effectively
provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s creditworthiness
must be converted into credit exposure equivalents using CCF of 0%”. For using CCF of
0%, please provide explanation on being cancellable at any time without prior notice.
Majority of the unconditionally cancellable commitments are subject to certain contractual
conditions, which in practice may not render them as unconditionally cancelled and thereby do
not qualify them for 0% CCF, implying that all the off-balance sheet items bear a risk to the bank.
Bank shall conduct a formal review of the commitments at regular intervals to ensure that
commitments can be cancelled from a legal and practical perspective.
Credit Risk Mitigation
Question 23: Is an approval required from the Central Bank to switch between the simple
and comprehensive approach for Credit Risk Mitigation techniques? For a bank that
35

[Document: document.pdf, Page 38]
CBUAE Classification: Public
applies the comprehensive approach, is an approval required to go back to the simple
approach?
A bank that intends to apply the comprehensive approach requires prior approval from the Central
Bank. Once approved and if the bank wishes to go back to simple approach, a bank requires the
Central Bank's approval again to go to the simple approach.
V. Appendix: Computation of Exposures with Credit Risk Mitigation Effects
Bank A repos out cash of AED 1000 to a corporate with an external rating of AA. The corporate
provides collateral in the form of debt securities issued by a bank with an external rating of
AA. The debt securities have a remaining maturity of 7 years and a market value of AED 990.
Minimum holding period for various products
Transaction type Minimum holding period Condition
Repo-style transaction 5 Business days Daily remargining
Other capital market transactions 10 Business days Daily remargining
Secured lending 20 Business days Daily revaluation
The haircut for the transaction with other than 10 business days minimum holding
period, as indicated above, will have to be adjusted by scaling up or down the haircut for
10 business days as per the formula given below:
NR+(TM−1)
H=HM√
𝑇M
Variables Details of the Variables Supervisory haircuts Scaling Adjusted haircuts
factor
He Haircut appropriate to the Exposure in the form of cash, 0 Not applicable
underlying exposure supervisory haircut 0%
Hc Haircut appropriate to the Debt securities issued by a 0.71 Supervisory haircut
Collateral bank (8%)* Scaling factor
supervisory haircut 8% (0.71 )= 6%
Hfx Haircut appropriate for No Currency Mismatch 0 Not applicable
Currency Mismatch
The exposure amount after risk mitigation is calculated as follows:
Variables E*= max {0, [E x (1 + He) – C x (1 – Hc – Hfx)]} Value
E* Net credit exposure (i.e. exposure value after CRM) 69.4
E Principal Amount, which is net of specific provisions, if any 1000
For off-balance sheet, it is the credit equivalent amount
He Haircut appropriate to the underlying exposure (cash) 0
C Value of the collateral before CRM 990
Hc Haircut appropriate to the Collateral 6%
Hfx Haircut appropriate for Currency Mismatch 0
Risk weighted asset for the exposure = (69.40 * 50% (AA)) = 34.70
(Exposure * Risk weight)
36

[Document: document.pdf, Page 39]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IV. Counterparty Credit Risk
I. Introduction
1. In March 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) published a new
approach for measurement of counterparty credit risk exposure associated with OTC derivatives,
exchange-traded derivatives, and long settlement transactions, the standardised approach for
CCR (SA-CCR). The approach in the Central Bank’s Standards for CCR closely follows the SA-
CCR as developed by the BCBS in all material areas of substance.
2. The BCBS developed the SA-CCR to replace the two previous non-internal model
methods, the Current Exposure Method (CEM) and the Standardized Method (SM). The SA-CCR
was designed to be more risk sensitive than CEM and SM. It accurately recognizes the effects of
collateralization and recognizes a benefit from over-collateralization. It also provides incentives
for centralized clearing of derivative transactions.
3. As is the case with the CEM, under the SA-CCR the exposure at default (EAD) is
calculated as the sum of two components: (i) replacement cost (RC), which reflects the current
value of the exposure adjusted for the effects of net collateral including thresholds, minimum
transfer amounts, and independent amounts; and (ii) potential future exposure (PFE), which
reflects the potential increase in exposure until the closure or replacement of the transactions.
The PFE portion consists of a multiplier that accounts for over-collateralization, and an aggregate
add-on derived from the summation of add-ons for each asset class (interest rate, foreign
exchange, credit, equity, and commodity), which in turn are calculated at the hedging set level.
II. Clarifications
A. Replacement Cost
4. Note that in mathematical terms, replacement cost for un-margined transactions is
calculated as:
𝑅𝐶 = max(𝑉 − 𝐶; 0)
where RC is replacement cost, V is the total current market value of all derivative contracts in the
netting set combined, and C is the net value of collateral for the netting set, after application of
relevant haircuts. (In the CCR Standards, the quantity V-C is referred to as the Net Current Value,
or NCV.)
5. For margined transactions, the calculation becomes:
𝑅𝐶 = max(𝑉 − 𝐶; 𝑇𝐻 + 𝑀𝑇𝐴 − 𝑁𝐼𝐶𝐴; 0)
where TH is the threshold level of variation that would require a transfer of collateral, MTA is the
minimum transfer amount of the collateral, and NICA is the Net Independent Collateral Amount
equal to the difference between the value of any independent collateral posted by a counterparty
and any independent collateral posted by the bank for that counterparty, excluding any collateral
that the bank has posted to a segregated, bankruptcy remote account.
37

[Document: document.pdf, Page 40]
CBUAE Classification: Public
6. When determining the RC component of a netting set, the netting contract must not contain
any clause which, in the event of default of a counterparty, permits a non-defaulting counterparty
to make limited payments only, or no payments at all, to the estate of the defaulting party, even if
the defaulting party is a net creditor.
B. Netting
7. The Standards requires that a bank should apply netting only when it can satisfy the
Central Bank that netting is appropriate, according to the specific requirements established in the
Standards. Banks should recognize that this requirement would likely be difficult to meet in the
case of trades conducted in jurisdictions lacking clear legal recognition of netting, which at present
is the case in the UAE.
8. If netting is not recognized, then netting sets still should be used for the calculation.
However, since each netting set must contain only trades that can be netted, each netting set is
likely to consist of a single transaction. The calculations of EAD can still be performed, although
they simplify considerably.
9. Note that there may be more than one netting set for a given counterparty. In that case,
the CCR calculations should be performed for each netting set individually. The individual netting
set calculations can be aggregated to the counterparty level for reporting or other purposes.
C. PFE Multiplier
10. For the multiplier of the PFE component, when the collateral held is less than the net
market value of the derivative contracts (“under-collateralization”), the current replacement cost
is positive and the multiplier is equal to one (i.e. the PFE component is equal to the full value of
the aggregate add-on). Where the collateral held is greater than the net market value of the
derivative contracts (“over-collateralization”), the current replacement cost is zero and the
multiplier is less than one (i.e. the PFE component is less than the full value of the aggregate add-
on).
D. Supervisory Duration
11. The Supervisory Duration calculation required in the Standards is in effect the present
value of a continuous-time annuity of unit nominal value, discounted at a rate of 5%. The implied
annuity is received between dates S and E (the start date and the end date, respectively), and
the present value is taken to the current date.
12. For interest rate and credit derivatives, the supervisory measure of duration depends on
each transaction’s start date S and end date E. The following Table presents example
transactions and illustrates the values of S and E, expressed in years, which would be associated
with each transaction, together with the maturity M of the transaction.
38

[Document: document.pdf, Page 41]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Instrument M S E
Interest rate or credit default swap maturing in 10 years 10 0 10
10-year interest rate swap, forward starting in 3 years 13 3 13
Forward rate agreement for time period starting in 125 days and
1 0.5 1
ending in one year
Cash-settled European swaption referencing 5-year interest
0.5 0.5 5.5
rate swap with exercise date in 125 days
Physically-settled European swaption referencing 5-year
5.5 0.5 5.5
interest rate swap with exercise date in 125 days
Interest rate cap or floor specified for semi-annual interest
6 0 6
with maturity 6 years
Option on a 5-year maturity bond, with the last possible
1 1 5
exercise date in 1 year
3-month Eurodollar futures maturing in 1 year 1 1 1.25
Futures on 20-year bond maturing in 2 years 2 2 22
6-month option on 2-year futures on a 20-year bond 2 2 22
13. Note there is a distinction between the period spanned by the underlying transaction and
the remaining maturity of the derivative contract. For example, a European interest rate swaption
with expiry of 1 year and the term of the underlying swap of 5 years has S=1 year and E=6 years.
An interest rate swap, or an index CDS, maturing in 10 years has S=0 years and E=10 years. The
parameters S and E are only used for interest rate derivatives and credit-related derivatives.
E. Aggregation of Maturity Category Effective Notional Amounts
14. The Standards allows banks to choose between two options for aggregating the effective
notional amounts that are calculated for each maturity category for interest rate derivatives. The
primary formula is the following:
√𝐷12+𝐷22+𝐷32+1.4×(𝐷1×𝐷2)+1.4×(𝐷2×𝐷3)+0.6×(𝐷1×𝐷3)
15. In this formula, D1 is the effective notional amount for maturity category 1, D2 is the
effective notional amount for maturity category 2, and D3 is the effective notional amount for
maturity category 3. As defined in the Standards, maturity category 1 is less than one year,
maturity category 2 is one to five years, and maturity category 3 is more than five years.
16. As an alternative, the bank may choose to combine the effective notional values as the
simple sum of the absolute values of D1, D2, and D3 within a hedging set, which has the effect
of ignoring potential diversification benefits. That is, as an alternative to the calculation above, the
bank may calculate:
|𝐷1|+|𝐷2|+|𝐷3|
This alternative is a simpler calculation, but is more conservative in the sense that it always
produces a larger result. To see this, note that the two calculations would give identical results
only if the values 1.4 and 0.6 in the first formula are replaced with the value 2.0. Since the actual
coefficient values are smaller than 2.0, the first formula gives a smaller result than the second
formula. Choosing the second formula is equivalent to choosing to use the first formula with the
39

[Document: document.pdf, Page 42]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1.4 and 0.6 values replaced by 2.0, increasing measured CCR exposure and therefore minimum
required capital.
F. Maturity Factor
17. Note that the Standards requires the use of a standard 250-day trading or business year
for the calculation of the maturity factor and the MPOR. The view of the Central Bank is that a
single, standardised definition of one year for this purpose will enhance comparability across
banks and over time. However, the BCBS has indicated that the number of business days used
for the purpose of determining the maturity factor be calculated appropriately for each transaction,
taking into account the market conventions of the relevant jurisdiction. If a bank believes that use
of a different definition of one year is appropriate, or would significantly reduce its compliance
burden, the bank may discuss the matter with bank supervisors.
G. Delta Adjustment
18. Supervisory delta adjustments reflect the fact that the notional value of a transaction is not
by itself a good indication of the associated risk. In particular, exposure to future market
movements depends on the direction of the transaction and any non-linearity in the structure.
19. With respect to direction, a derivative may be long exposure to the underlying risk factor
(price, rate, volatility, etc.), in which case the value of the derivative will move in the same direction
as the underlying – gaining value with increases, losing value with decreases – and the delta is
positive to reflect this relationship. The alternative is that a derivative may be short exposure to
the underlying risk factor, in which case the value of the derivative moves opposite to the
underlying – losing value with increases, and gaining value with decreases – and thus the delta
is negative.
20. The non-linearity effects are prominent with transactions that involve contingent payoffs
or option-like elements. Options and CDOs are notable examples. For such derivative
transactions, the impact of a change in the price of the underlying instrument is not linear or one-
for-one. For example, with an option on a foreign currency, when the exchange rate changes by
a given amount, the change in the value of the derivative – the option contract – will almost always
be less than the change in the exchange rate. Moreover, the amount by which the change is less
than one-for-one will vary depending on a number of factors, including the current exchange rate
relative to the exercise price of the option, the time remaining to expiration of the option, and the
current volatility of the exchange rate. Without an adjustment for that difference, the notional
amounts alone would be misleading indications of the potential for counterparty credit risk.
21. The supervisory delta adjustments for all derivatives are presented in the table below,
which is repeated from the CCR Standards. These adjustments are defined at the trade level, and
are applied to the adjusted notional amounts to reflect the direction of the transaction and its non-
linearity.
22. Note that the supervisory delta adjustments for the various option transactions are closely
related to the delta from the widely used Black-Scholes model of option prices, although the risk-
free interest rate – which would ordinarily appear in this expression – is not included. In general,
banks should use a forward price or rate, ideally reflecting any interim cash flows on the underlying
instrument, as P in the supervisory delta calculation.
40

[Document: document.pdf, Page 43]
CBUAE Classification: Public
23. The expression for the supervisory delta adjustment for CDOs is based on attachment and
detachment points for any tranche of the CDO. The precise specification (including the values of
the embedded constants of 14 and 15) is the result of an empirical exercise conducted by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to identify a relatively simple functional form that would
provide a sufficiently close fit to CDO sensitivities as reported by a set of globally active banks.
Supervisory Delta Adjustments
Supervisory Delta
Type of Derivative Transaction
Adjustment
Purchased Call Option F
Purchased Put Option F-1
Sold Call Option -F
Sold Put Option 1-F
Purchased CDO Tranche (Long Protection) G
Sold CDO Tranche (Short Protection) -G
Any Other Derivative Type, Long in the Primary Risk Factor +1
Any Other Derivative Type, Short in the Primary Risk Factor -1
Definitions
For options:
ln(𝑃/𝐾)+0.5×𝜎2𝑇
𝐹 =Φ( )
𝜎√𝑇
In this expression, P is the current forward value of the underlying price or rate, K is the exercise
or strike price of the option, T is the time to the latest contractual exercise date of the option, 
is the appropriate supervisory volatility from Table 2, and Φ is the standard normal cumulative
density function. A supervisory volatility of 50% should be used on swaptions for all currencies.
For CDO tranches:
15
𝐺 =
(1+14𝐴)(1+14𝐷)
In this expression, A is the attachment point of the CDO tranche and D is the detachment point
of the CDO tranche.
41

[Document: document.pdf, Page 44]
CBUAE Classification: Public
H. Complex Derivatives
24. The Standards requires that complex trades with more than one risk driver (e.g. multi-
asset or hybrid derivatives) must be allocated to more than one asset class when the material risk
drivers span more than one asset class. The full amount of the trade must be included in the PFE
calculation for each of the relevant asset classes. Asset-class allocation of complex derivatives is
a point of national discretion in the Basel framework, and the Central Bank believes that requiring
banks to identify such trades and allocate them accordingly places appropriate responsibility on
banks that choose to engage in such trades.
25. Examples of derivatives that reference the basis between two risk factors and are
denominated in a single currency (basis transactions) include three-month Libor versus six-month
Libor, three-month Libor versus three-month T-Bill, one-month Libor versus OIS rate, or Brent
Crude oil versus Henry Hub gas. These examples are provided as illustrations, and do not
represent an exhaustive list.
26. Hedging sets for derivatives that reference the volatility of a risk factor (volatility
transactions) must follow the same hedging set construction outlined in the Standards for
derivatives in that asset class; for example, all equity volatility transactions form a single hedging
set. Examples of volatility transactions include variance and volatility swaps, or options on realized
or implied volatility.
I. Unrated Reference Assets
27. The supervisory factor for credit derivatives depends on the credit rating of the underlying
reference asset. The Basel framework does not provide a specific treatment of unrated reference
assets. The Central Bank believes that credit derivatives on unrated reference entities are likely
to be rare. However, for the sake of completeness, the Standards requires that any such credit
derivatives be treated in a manner that is broadly consistent with the treatment of unrated entities
in other aspects of the risk-based capital framework, through use of a Supervisory Factor
corresponding to BBB or BB ratings as described in the Standards.
28. For an entity for which a credit rating is not available, a bank should use the Supervisory
Factor corresponding to BBB. However, where the exposure is associated with an elevated risk
of default, the bank should use the Supervisory Factor for BB. In this context, “elevated risk of
default” should also be understood to include instances in which it is difficult or impossible to
assess adequately whether the exposure has high risk of loss due to default by the obligor. A
bank trading credit derivatives referencing unrated entities should conduct their own analysis to
examine this risk.
J. Commodity Derivatives
29. Note that the Standards defines the term “commodity type” for purposes of calculation of
exposure for CCR. A commodity type is defined as a set of commodities with broadly similar risk
drivers, such that the prices or volatilities of commodities of the same commodity type may
reasonably be expected to move with similar direction and timing and to bear predictable
relationships to one another. For example, a commodity type such as coal might include several
types of coal, and a commodity type such as oil might include oil of different grades from different
sources. The prices of commodities of a given type may not move precisely in lock step, but they
are likely to move in the same direction at roughly the same time, due to their dependence on
common forces in commodity markets. Long and short trades within a single commodity type can
be fully offset.
42

[Document: document.pdf, Page 45]
CBUAE Classification: Public
30. For commodity derivatives, defining individual commodity types is operationally difficult. In
fact, it is generally not possible to fully specify all relevant distinctions between commodity types,
and as a result, a single commodity type is likely to include individual commodities that in practice
differ to some extent in the dynamic behaviour they exhibit. As a result, not all basis risk is likely
to be captured. Nonetheless, banks should attempt to minimize unrecognized basis risk through
sound definitions of commodity types.
31. The Standards requires a bank to establish appropriate governance processes for the
creation and maintenance of the list of defined commodity types used by the bank for CCR
calculations, with clear definitions and independent internal review or validation processes to
ensure that commodities grouped as a single type are in fact similar. A bank can only use the
specifically defined commodity types it has established through its adequately controlled internal
processes.
32. Trades within the same commodity hedging set (Energy, Metals, Agriculture, and Other)
enjoy partial offsetting through the use of correlation values established in the Standards, with
correlation values varying by asset subclass. More specifically, partial offsetting applies only to
the systematic component, not the issuer-specific or idiosyncratic component. Note that Electricity
is a sub-class of the Commodity asset class, but is itself part of the broader Energy hedging set,
rather than constituting a distinct hedging set.
K. Single-Name and Index Derivatives
33. For credit derivatives, there is one credit reference entity for each reference debt
instrument that underlies a single-name transaction allocated to the credit risk category. Single-
name transactions should be assigned to the same credit reference entity only where the
underlying reference debt instrument of those transactions is issued by the same issuer.
34. The approach for establishing the reference entity for equity derivatives should correspond
to the general approach for credit derivatives.
35. For credit derivatives with indices as the underlying instrument, there should be one
reference entity for each group of reference debt instruments or single-name credit derivatives
that underlie a multi-name transaction. Multi-name transactions should be assigned to the same
credit reference entity only where the group of underlying reference debt instruments or single-
name credit derivatives of those transactions has the same constituents. The determination of
whether an index is investment grade or speculative grade should be based on the credit quality
of the majority of its individual constituents.
36. Again, the approach for equity index derivatives should follow the general approach for
credit index derivatives.
L. Special Cases of Margin Agreements
37. When multiple margin agreements apply to a single netting set, the netting set should be
broken down into sub-netting sets that align with the respective margin agreement for calculating
both RC and PFE.
38. When a single margin agreement applies to multiple netting sets, RC at any given time is
determined by the sum of two terms. The first term is equal to the un-margined current exposure
of the bank to the counterparty aggregated across all netting sets within the margin agreement
reduced by the positive current net collateral (i.e. collateral is subtracted only when the bank is a
43