
110. Each bank is required to establish several distinct forms of stress test exercises as
described hereunder, however for the purposes of an ICAAP the minimum expectation is to
conduct internal enterprise-wide stress tests and portfolio-level stress tests. Regulatory stress
tests are not acceptable as the only form of internal stress tests:
a) Internal enterprise-wide stress tests: The purpose of these exercises to
analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank’s solvency, profitability,
stability, and capital. The methodology and scope of such stress tests should
be designed to address the specific risk profile of each bank, and will thus differ
from regulatory stress tests. These exercises are generally executed as top-
down exercises, with the objective to capture a wide scope of risks and
portfolios. Such exercise should support strategic decision related to the risk
appetite of the bank, its risk profile, and its portfolio allocation. Each bank should
employ at least three (3) scenarios in the execution of internal enterprise-wide
166

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
stress tests.
b) Internal portfolio-level stress tests: The purpose of these exercises to
execute frequent, variable and proactive stress tests on the various portfolios of
the bank. These stress tests are generally executed as bottom-up exercises,
with the objective to measure the stress impact at portfolio level accurately. The
scenarios and the methodologies should be granular and fully tailored to the risk
profile of each portfolio. Deteriorating economic circumstances are typically the
drivers for conducting unscheduled stress tests on a particular portfolio, for
example a declining outlook in the residential real estate sector would motivate
a stress tests on the commensurate portfolio. These stress tests can result in
the identification of risks that were not captured by the enterprise-wide stresses.
Consequently, these exercises should support, motivate strategic, and tactical
decisions at portfolio and/or facility level.
c) Regulatory stress tests: These exercises are commissioned by the Central
Bank or other supervisors, to whom banks’ foreign subsidiaries are accountable.
These exercises follow the scenarios and methodologies prescribed by
supervisors, which cover most of the bank’s portfolio. The purpose of such an
exercise is to analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank in order to
assess its solvency, profitability, stability, and ultimately the suitability of its
capital. While these exercises are originally designed to inform regulators for
supervision purposes, they should also inform Senior Management and steer
internal decision-making.
111. The frequency of stress test exercises should depend on their type, scope, depth, and
on the wider economic context. Each bank should execute enterprise-wide stress tests based
on a set of scenarios regularly at least quarterly is recommend. Each bank should execute
portfolio-level stress tests more frequently depending on the needs of risk management and
the business functions. Market risk stress tests in particular may have to be performed more
frequently.
112. The capital impact results of these stress tests should be analysed, compared,
incorporated, and presented in the ICAAP. One or several internal enterprise-wide stress test
outcomes should be explicitly incorporated in the capital planning, and presented accordingly
in the ICAAP capital planning section. The results from all types of stress tests exercise should
be employed by Senior Management and the Board to assess the suitability of the bank’s
capital.
Scenarios
113. Stress test scenarios should be designed to capture the risks and potential losses
appropriately, in coherence with the characteristics of each bank’s risk profile and portfolio.
The scope of these scenarios should cover all the risks identified as part of the identification
process documented in the ICAAP. At a minimum, the scope of risks should cover strategic
risk, credit risk, market risk, counterparty risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, IRRBB, credit
concentration risk, funding risk, reputational risk, and climate risk.
114. Stress scenarios should lead to a reliable measurement of loss under extreme but
plausible events. Such scenarios are essential tool to support risk quantification in providing
impact on Pillar 1 and Pillar 2. Consequently, the scenario design should be supported by a
clear choice of risk factors and associated shocks. Several types of design are commonly
employed:
(i) Sensitivity analysis involve shifting the values of an individual risk factor or
several risk factors by using standardised shocks. Sensitivity analysis is
167

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
employed to estimate the P&L profile and risks to the bank from a range of
shocks. This is particularly useful to identify non-linear response in the loss
profile. For instance, this could include measuring NII with parallel shifts of +/-
50bp, +/-100bp, +/-150bp and higher shocks applied to a yield curve. It also
includes measuring expected credit loss (ECL) and capital requirements with
standard parallel shocks of +/-100bp, +/-200bp, +/-300bp applied to the PD term
structure of a given portfolio (e.g. worsening of credit spreads, adverse changes
in interest rates, other macroeconomic or idiosyncratic variables).
(ii) Scenario analysis involves measuring the combined effect of several risk
factors with shocks designed in coherence with an economic narrative affecting
the bank’s business operations simultaneously. Such narrative should be based
on an analysis of the current economic conditions, the business environment
and the operating conditions of the bank. The scope of events should be broad,
consider an appropriate range of risk types, and geographies. The narrative
should be constructed with a clear sequence of unfolding events leading to (a)
direct risks, (b) second-order risks, and/or (c) systemic risks, and how these risks
affect the profit and loss profile and risks of the bank based on a scale of shocks
(e.g. an economic recession coupled with a tightening of market liquidity and
declining asset prices). The scope of the narrative should take into account the
economic environment and the features of each portfolio in scope. The
calibration of shocks should be supported by rigorous methodologies using (a)
historical data and past events, and/or (b) forward-looking assumptions.
Practitioners refer to ‘historical scenarios’ and ‘hypothetical scenarios’.
115. Each bank is expected to continuously monitor and identify new threats, vulnerabilities
and changes in the environment to assess whether its stress testing scenarios remain
appropriate at least quarterly and, if not, adapt them to the new circumstances. The impact of
the scenarios is expected to be updated regularly (e.g. quarterly). In case of any material
changes, the bank is expected to assess their potential impact on its capital adequacy over
the course of the year.
116. If the bank forecasts the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights
issues, reduction in the equity, etc.) and the capital planning reflects the proposed changes,
the bank must perform an additional stress scenario. In these additional stress scenarios the
bank should analyse the impact under the assumption that the capital increase does not
materialise. The impact analysis should include management actions and formal trigger points.
Methodology
117. The process of stress tests should be supported by robust and documented
methodologies. All models employed in the quantification of stress results should comply with
the requirements presented in the Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance.
118. For the measurement of capital under stress, each bank should employ a dedicated
financial model to forecast their financial statements under several economic conditions. Such
projection should be constructed over a minimum of three (3) years, in coherence with the
most recent capital plan and with the Central Bank regulatory exercise.
119. Stress scenarios may be derived from stochastic models or historical events, and can
be developed with varying degrees of precision, depth, and severity, particularly the impact on
asset quality, profitability, and capital adequacy. Each bank should consider three (3) to five
(5) scenarios (each scenario can have multiple severity levels (i.e. Low, medium, and high).
Although it is expected to consider the supervisory stress tests (“stress test exercise of the
Financial Stability Department (FSD)”) as one scenario, it is the bank’s responsibility to define
scenarios and sensitivities in the manner that best addresses its situation and to translate them
168

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 21 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
into risk, loss, and capital figures.
Use Test
120. Stress tests should support decision-making throughout the bank effectively. Stress
tests should be embedded in banks’ business decision-making and risk management process
at several levels of the organisation. Senior Management and the Board should lead and
approve all assumptions, the methodology framework and authorise the use of stress test
results.
121. Stress tests do not stop with the production of results. Risk mitigations should always
be considered in light of the stress severity and likelihood. If no action is deemed necessary,
this should be documented and clearly justified.
Reverse Stress Test
122. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests. Reverse stress tests start with the identification of a pre-defined outcome where the
bank’s business model becomes non-viable (e.g. through insolvency), or it breaches
supervisory compliance minima, e.g. by breaching minimum capital requirements (i.e. the bank
will breach the regulatory capital buffer and minimum capital requirements). The next step is
to assess which scenarios and shocks lead to that identified outcome. Finally, the objective is
to assess whether the likelihood of occurrence is realistic and the impact warrants mitigating
actions. If a bank considers mitigation strategies, e.g. hedging strategies, the bank should
consider if such strategies would be viable. For example, a market that is stressed at a financial
system level may be characterised by a lack of market liquidity and increased counterparty
credit risk.
123. Effective reverse stress testing is a challenging exercise that requires the involvement
of all material risk areas across the bank’s subject matter experts, Senior Management, and
the Board.
124. Each bank should conduct a reverse stress test at least once a year. A well-designed
reverse stress test should also include enough diagnostic information to allow the identification
of the sources of potential failure. This enables proactive risk management actions and
implementation of an appropriate strategy for refined risk monitoring, prevention, and
mitigation. The reverse stress test requires each bank to consider scenarios beyond normal
business forecasts and aids identification of events linked to contagion with potential systemic
implications. Reverse stress testing has important quantitative and qualitative uses, through
informing Senior Management of vulnerabilities, and supporting measures to avoid them.
(Please refer to Appendix 3.3).
VIII. ICAAP Submission and Approval
Submission of the ICAAP report
125. The annual ICAAP report should be submitted to the Central Bank on or before the
submission dates addressed in Table 1.
126. All documents have to be submitted to the respective Central Bank reviewer by
softcopy (submitted in word or pdf format), sending a copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
127. The submission dates below as per Notice 2940/2022 differentiate between (i) national
banks and foreign bank and (ii) size and importance of the banks: (Table 1)
Table 1 - Submission date for ICAAP Report
169