[Document: document.pdf, Page 131]
CBUAE Classification: Public
For the other six business lines, the calculation of the operational risk capital charge will be based
on the gross income and beta factor of that business line, as prescribed under the SA.
Further Options under the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)
Further options are available at under the ASA for calculating the operational risk capital
charge to address problems in disaggregation of the exposure indicator among business lines by
banks. However, the greater the disaggregation, the better will be the alignment of the capital
charge with a bank's operational risk profile.
Available options relate to using loans and advances in commercial and retail banking
business lines and gross income in the other six business lines as the exposure indicators with
different beta factor combinations:
- Option 1 – using a common beta factor of 15% for commercial loans and retail loans, and
the SA beta factors for the other six business lines
- Option 2 – using the SA beta factors of 15% and 12%, respectively, for commercial loans
and retail loans and a common beta factor of 18% for the other six business lines
- Option 3 – using a common beta of 15% for commercial loans and retail loans and a
common beta factor of 18% for the other six business lines
For further details, kindly refer to the Appendix below.
IV. Shari’ah Implementation
Banks that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of
Shari’ah law and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Operational Risk
Standard, shall, for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the
relevant risk weighted asset in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner
compliant to the Shari’ah law.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
V. Frequently Asked Questions
A. Basic Indicator Approach
Question 1: If a bank incurs a negative gross income in any of the previous three years,
will it be taken into account under the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA)?
The basis for working out the capital charge for operational risk under the BIA is three-year
average of positive gross income. If the gross income for any of the previous three years is
negative or zero, the figures for that year will be excluded from both the numerator and the
denominator when calculating the capital charge. The negative gross income will not be added to
the numerator and the denominator will exclude the year in which the income is negative.
As mentioned under the Basic Indicator Approach, if negative gross income distorts a bank’s Pillar
1 capital charge under the Standardised Approach, supervisors will consider appropriate
supervisory action under Pillar 2.
129

[Document: document.pdf, Page 132]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 2: Can the Central Bank detail or provide examples of the extraordinary or
irregular items under the definition of Gross income. Does this cover the bank selling off
certain part of its business?
An extraordinary or irregular item consists of gains or losses included on a bank's P&L statement
(usually reported separately as these items are not predictors of future performance) from events
that are unusual and infrequent in nature. Such items are the result of unforeseen and atypical
events that are outside the normal course of the core banking business (i.e. outside the types of
income described in paragraph 13 of the Operational Risk section of Standards re Capital
Adequacy in the UAE). For example, income derived from non-core banking business; income
from discontinued operations; extraordinary income (e.g. from the sale of certain part a banking
business).
B. Standardised Approach
Question 3: Define business Segments under 'Retail Brokerage' and 'Asset Management'?
• Retail Brokerage - Examples of activities:
Execution and full service, such as:
i. Reception and transmission of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments
ii. Execution of orders on behalf of clients
• Asset Management- Examples of activities:
i. Portfolio management
ii. Managing of Investments funds, including: pooled funds, segregated funds, retail
funds, institutional funds, closed funds, open funds, private equity funds
Question 4: What is the objective mapping criteria for mapping ancillary business function
that supports more than one business line?
Such objective mapping criteria depends on the business and ancillary business mix of a bank.
These criteria are not preset by the Central Bank. A bank should establish internally such criteria,
reflecting its internal organisation, and these should be subject to independent review as per point
(ix) of paragraph 12 of the Operational Risk section of Standards re Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
The allocation can be done pro-rata based on the chosen criteria.
Examples of objective criteria include:
1. number of full-time equivalent members of staff,
2. time sheet man-hours,
3. number of clients or transactions originated from each business line,
4. volume of business originated from each business line.
Question 5: Business Segments/ functions that are to be mapped to 'Payment and
Settlement' can be clearly articulated, as currently Level 2 defines the business segment
as 'External Clients'
There is no fixed definition of external clients but all clients that the bank deals with externally with
regards to Payment and Settlements need to be incorporated in this business line.
130

[Document: document.pdf, Page 133]
CBUAE Classification: Public
C. Alternative Standardised Approach
Question 6: What exposure indicator is used in the ASA approach?
In the ASA, gross income is replaced by the credit volume in terms of outstanding loans and
advances (L&A) multiplied by a factor m (fixed at 0.035), as the exposure indicator for retail and
commercial banking business lines. The loans and advances are non-risk weighted and gross of
provisions.
Question 7: Why is the volume-based indicator alternative provided?
This volume-based indicator is provided to avoid large differences in the operational risk
requirement caused by differences in income margins across banks and jurisdictions in these
business lines. Gross income is not an appropriate exposure indicator of the extent of operational
risk in retail and commercial lending.
Question 8: Can a bank choose to adopt ASA on its own?
No, the Central Bank must be satisfied that the alternative approach provides an improved basis
for calculating the capital charge for operational risk in the bank. Reverting to the SA after adopting
ASA is only possible with the approval of the Central Bank.
Question 9: What comprises Commercial Loans and Advances?
Under the ASA, commercial loans and advances will include outstanding amounts (non-risk
weighted and gross of provisions) averaged over the past three years, from the following credit
portfolios:
Commercial loans included for ASA Definitions
Corporates Loans to a corporation, partnership or
proprietorship firm
Sovereigns Loans to sovereigns and their central banks,
certain public sector enterprises and
multilateral development banks
Banks Loans to other banks and regulated
securities firms
Specialised lending Loans for project finance, object finance,
commodities finance, income producing real
estate and commercial real estate
Small and medium enterprises treated as Loans to small and medium enterprises
corporates belonging to a group with annual gross
turnover that exceeds AED 250 million
Purchased corporate receivables Bank finance against amounts due to
corporates from third parties for goods
and/or services provided by them.
Book value of securities held in the banking The value at which securities have been
book purchased rather than their market value.
Securities that are held in the banking book
are intended to be held until maturity. There
is no intent of trading in these securities.
Question 10: What comprises Retail Loans?
For the purpose of the ASA, retail loans will include total outstanding amounts (non-risk weighted
131

[Document: document.pdf, Page 134]
CBUAE Classification: Public
and gross of provisions) averaged over the past three years in the following credit portfolios:
Retail loans included for ASA Definitions
Retail Exposures to individuals, residential
mortgage loans etc.
SMEs treated as retail Loans extended to small and medium
businesses and managed as retail
exposures by the bank.
Purchased retail receivables Bank finance against amounts due to
bank’s retail clients from third parties for
goods and/or services provided by them
Question 11: What is the threshold to decide a large diversified bank in terms of assets
book size/composition or any other indicators?
Currently, there is no such threshold. The Central Bank will perform an assessment for each bank
applying to qualify for ASA. The qualifying criteria provided in paragraph 28 of the Operational
Risk section of Standards re Capital Adequacy in the UAE, especially the first one (90% income
from retail/commercial banking) are stringent. The Central Bank will review whether the bank
meets the 90% standard to determine whether an additional size cut-off is appropriate.
Question 12: Retail or commercial banking activities shall account for at least 90% of its
income. Please clarify whether this needs to be seen in the current year or an average of
all the 3 years based on which the Operational Risk capital is being computed
Testing the 90% rule across a period of three consecutive years will be more appropriate.
Question 13: "The bank's operational risk management processes and assessment system
shall be subject to validation and regular independent review". Can we get clarification on
the difference between the validation and the review, and what are the scope and
responsible party for each?
Validation of models and tables must be performed by the internal auditor or by the external
auditor.
Question 14: In terms of the "regular reporting", is an official ORM meeting required? For
example, Operational Risk Business/ Country / Group Committee meetings?