
19. On the basis of information assessed by the Central Bank, the following entities currently
meet the criteria for eligible ECAIs described in this Guidance:
(i) Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services;
(ii) Moody’s Investors Service;
(iii) Fitch Ratings; and
(iv) Capital Intelligence.
20. The Central Bank has concluded that banks can use the ratings of any of the above ECAIs.
Banks should be aware that the Central Bank regularly reassesses the extent to which any ECAI
meets the criteria stated in this Guidance. Banks must take steps to confirm that any ratings used
in capital adequacy calculations are obtained from ECAIs that continue to be viewed as eligible
by the Central Bank. Additional entities may be approved as eligible ECAIs in due course.
21. Based on available information regarding the rating processes of these ECAIs, the Central
Bank has established the correspondence shown in Table 1 between the long-term rating scales
of the various ECAIs. However, if a bank determines that a different mapping is more appropriate,
the bank should use that alternative mapping, provided the results are at least as conservative as
using the mapping below.
143

[Document: document.pdf, Page 146]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Table 1: Long-Term Rating Correspondence
S & P Fitch Moody’s Capital Intelligence
AAA to AA‐ AAA to AA‐ Aaa to Aa3 AAA to AA-
A+ to A‐ A+ to A‐ A1 to A3 A+ to A-
BBB+ to BBB‐ BBB+ to BBB‐ Baa1 to Baa3 BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB‐ BB+ to BB‐ Ba1 to Ba3 BB+ to BB-
B+ to B‐ B+ to B‐ B1 to B3 B+ to B-
Below B- Below B- Below B3 Below B-
Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated
22. For certain aspects of capital adequacy calculations, short‐term ratings are used. Based
on available information regarding the rating processes of these ECAIs, the Central Bank has
established the correspondence shown in Table 2 between the short-term rating scales of the
eligible ECAIs. However, as with the long-term ratings, if a bank determines that a different
mapping is more appropriate, the bank should use that alternative mapping, provided the results
are at least as conservative as using the mapping below.
Table 2: Short-Term Rating Correspondence
S & P Fitch Moody’s Capital Intelligence
A‐1+, A‐1 F1+, F1 P‐1 A1+, A1
A‐2 F2 P‐2 A2
A‐3 F3 P‐3 A3
Below A‐3 Below F3 Not prime Below A3
IV. Bank Use of Ratings
A. Bank Use of ECAI Ratings
23. For the purpose of applying ECAI ratings to derive risk‐weights for exposures, banks
should apply the following process:
(i) Identify an ECAI (the “nominated ECAI”) whose assigned ratings the bank intends
to use to derive risk weights for some type of exposure that is subject to an external
ratings‐based approach under Central Bank standards;
(ii) Confirm that the nominated ECAIs can provide reasonable coverage of the bank’s
exposures in terms of the types of counterparties and the geographical regions
covered;
(iii) Document the selection of the ECAI and the analysis demonstrating that the ratings
of ECAI are appropriate for the specific use;
(iv) Notify the Central Bank of the nominated ECAI and of the intended application of the
ratings of that ECAI to the bank’s external ratings‐based calculations; and
144

[Document: document.pdf, Page 147]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(v) Use the ratings of the ECAI within external ratings‐based calculations consistently.
24. Banks must use the chosen ECAIs and their ratings consistently for each type of claim for
which the ECAI and its ratings are approved, and must seek the consent of the Central Bank on
any subsequent changes to the application of those ratings. Banks may not “cherry‐pick” the
ratings provided by different ECAIs, and must maintain records of which ECAIs they use for
various purposes within capital adequacy calculations. Banks may not use unsolicited ratings that
may be provided by any ECAI.
25. When banks use external ratings to assign risk weight to securitisation exposures under
the Central Bank’s Standards on Capital for Securitisation Exposures, additional operational
requirements apply to the ratings and the ECAI that is the source of the ratings.
B. Multiple Ratings
26. If there is only one rating by a nominated ECAI for a particular claim, that rating should be
used to determine the risk weight of the exposure.
27. If there are two ratings by nominated ECAIs that map to different risk weights, the higher
risk weight must be applied.
28. If there are three or more ratings with different risk weights, the ratings corresponding to
the two lowest risk weights should be referred to. If these give rise to the same risk weight, that
risk weight should be applied. If different, the higher risk weight should be applied.
C. Other Considerations in the Use of Ratings
29. External ratings for one entity within a corporate group cannot be used to risk weight other
entities within the same group.
30. A bank must treat a relevant exposure or the person to whom the bank has a relevant
exposure as “unrated” for risk weighting purposes if that exposure or that person does not have
a rating assigned to it by the ECAI otherwise used by the bank.
31. Where a bank is applying external ratings to an exposure that corresponds to a particular
issue with an issue‐specific rating, the risk weight of the claim must be based on this issue-specific
rating. In other cases, the following requirements apply:
(i) In circumstances where the borrower has a specific rating for an issued debt claim,
but the bank’s exposure does not relate to this particular rated claim, a high-quality
credit rating (that is, one that maps to a risk weight lower than the risk weight that
would apply to an unrated claim) on that specific issue may only be applied to the
bank’s un‐assessed exposure if the exposure ranks pari passu with or senior to the
rated issue in all respects. If not, the credit rating cannot be used, and the un‐
assessed claim exposure should receive the risk weight for unrated claims.
(ii) In circumstances where the borrower has an issuer rating, this rating typically applies
to senior unsecured claims on that issuer. Consequently, only senior claims on that
issuer will benefit from a high-quality issuer rating if one exists. Other un‐assessed
claims of a highly assessed issuer will be treated as unrated. If either the issuer, or
a particular issue from that issuer, has a low-quality rating (that is, one that would
145

[Document: document.pdf, Page 148]
CBUAE Classification: Public
map to a risk weight equal to or higher than would apply to an unrated exposure),
then a bank with an unrated exposure to the same counterparty that ranks pari passu
with or is subordinated to senior unsecured (in the case of an issuer rating) or to the
specific issue (in the case of an issue-specific rating) should risk-weight that
exposure using the low-quality rating.
32. Where a bank intends to rely on an issuer or an issue-specific rating, the rating must take
into account and reflect the entire amount of credit risk exposure a bank has with regard to all
amounts owed to it.
33. Where exposures are risk-weighted based on the rating of an equivalent exposure to that
borrower, foreign currency ratings should be used for exposures in foreign currency. If there is a
separate domestic currency rating, it should be used only to risk-weight exposures denominated
in the domestic currency.
34. In order to avoid double counting of credit enhancement factors, no supervisory
recognition of credit risk mitigation techniques will be taken into account if the credit enhancement
is already reflected in the rating of a specific issue.
V. Ongoing Review
35. The Central Bank determines on an ongoing basis whether an ECAI meets the criteria for
recognition according to this Guidance. In this regard, the Central Bank conducts periodic reviews
of each recognized ECAI. Any changes to the list of approved ECAIs or to the established
correspondence between their ratings will be publicly disclosed by the Central Bank in a timely
manner.
VI. Requests for Recognition of ECAIs
36. The Central Bank may consider additional ECAIs as eligible for use within capital
adequacy standards. These additional ECAIs may be identified for consideration by the Central
Bank, or may be identified by banks or by the ECAIs themselves. The Central Bank will evaluate
potential additional ECAIs against the eligibility requirements in this Guidance, under procedures
established by the Central Bank.
37. Banks that identify potential additional ECAIs for consideration by the Central Bank must
provide information about the ECAI that would allow an appropriate evaluation by the Central
Bank according to this Guidance. The banks should identify the types of claims to which the ECAIs
ratings might be applied, as well as the geographies covered, and explain the need for, or value
of, recognizing the ECAI as eligible. Banks should provide a preliminary evaluation, subject to
Central Bank review, of how the ECAI meets all of the eligibility criteria described above in this
Guidance.
38. ECAIs may also request recognition from the Central Bank. In such cases, the ECAI must
provide detailed information that would allow a complete evaluation by the Central Bank under
this Guidance. The ECAI should provide evidence, subject to Central Bank review, that the ECAI
meets all of the eligibility criteria described above in this Guidance, including full compliance with
the IOSCO CRA Code.
146

[Document: document.pdf, Page 149]
CBUAE Classification: Public
VII. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: What is meant by “international standards” in connection with the definition
of default?
The most widely accepted international standards for assessing the capital adequacy of banks,
i.e. the Basel framework, incorporate specific definitions of default for wholesale and retail credit.
ECAI definitions of default should broadly reflect those definitions, although they need not
precisely duplicate the Basel definitions.
Question 2: Can definitions of default be adjusted to take into account local practices or
institutional or market conditions?
Yes, as the Guidance notes, certain adjustments for local conditions may be appropriate,
particularly to account for default conditions that should be interpreted as demonstrating that a
borrower is “unlikely to pay.” As the BCBS has noted in guidance to banks, some flexibility in the
definition of default is appropriate to reflect the particular circumstances of each jurisdiction.
Question 3: Must the quantitative back testing of ratings outcomes incorporate an analysis
of recovery rates in all cases?
No, the quantitative analysis conducted should be tailored as appropriate to demonstrate the
performance of the actual rating methodology applied by the ECAI. Specifics of the analysis may
differ depending on the methodology; for example, if the rating methodology solely reflects default
probabilities rather than loss rates, then recovery studies may not be relevant.
Question 4: Can unsolicited ratings be used for bank capital calculations?
No, the Central Bank of the UAE has determined that unsolicited ratings do not provide an
appropriate basis for capital calculations by banks in the UAE.
Question 5: Does the recognition of certain rating agencies by the Central Bank imply an
endorsement of those ECAIs?
No, recognition reflects only a determination that an ECAI and its ratings meet the requirements
to be used for regulatory capital calculations as articulated in Central Bank standards and
regulations.
Question 6: Does the requirement that rating methodologies be established for at least one
year preclude new rating methodologies from being introduced?
No, this requirement does not preclude the development and implementation of new rating
methods by an ECAI. However, use of ratings for capital adequacy calculations (as opposed to
other uses of ratings) requires a demonstration of the reliability of the ratings. Demonstration of
reliability takes time; one year of experience is the minimum requirement, and longer periods of
observation, perhaps operating in parallel with previous rating methodologies, are preferable.
Question 7: Do ratings correspond to specific risk weights for capital, and if so where is
that correspondence found?
Yes, the purpose of recognition of ECAIs and the alignment of their ratings as specified in the
Guidance is to facilitate the use of these ratings for risk-weight assignments in regulatory capital
adequacy calculations. Please consult the relevant Standards (such as the Standards on Credit
Risk) for risk weights corresponding to each rating category.
147

[Document: document.pdf, Page 150]
CBUAE Classification: Public
VIII. List of Abbreviations
BCBS: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
ECAI: External Credit Assessment Institution
IOSCO: International Organization of Securities Commissions
148