[Document: document.pdf, Page 111]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The capital charges under the simplified approach are as follows:
Simplified approach : capital charges
Position Treatment
Hedged positions: long cash position in the The capital charge is the market value of the
underlying instrument and long put or short underlying security multiplied by the sum of
cash position in the underlying instrument specific and general market risk charges for
and long call the underlying, less the amount the option is
in-the-money (if any) bounded at zero.
Outright option positions: long call or long The capital charge is the lesser of:
put  The market value of the underlying
security multiplied by the sum of
specific and general market risk
charges for the underlying
 The market value of the option
b) Intermediate Approach
The procedure for general market risk is explained below. The specific risk capital charges
are determined separately by multiplying the delta-equivalent of each option by the specific risk
charges for each risk category.
The delta-plus method
The delta-plus method uses the sensitivity parameters or Greek letters associated with
options to measure their market risk and capital requirements.
Options should be included in market risk calculations for each type of risk as a delta-
weighted position equal to the market value of the underlying multiplied by the delta.
The delta-equivalent position of each option becomes part of the standardised approach,
with the delta-equivalent amount subject to the applicable market risk capital charges. Separate
capital charges are then applied to the gamma and Vega risks of the option positions.
Greek Letters: Five coefficients are used to help explain how option values behave in relation to
changes in market parameters (price of the underlying asset, the strike price, the volatility of the
underlying, the time to maturity and the risk-free interest rate). These are represented by the
Greek letters delta, gamma, Vega, theta and rho, and are referred to as the 'option Greeks'.
 Delta (Δ) measures the rate of change in the value of an option with respect to a change
in the price of the underlying asset.
 Gamma (Γ) measures the rate of change in the delta of an option with respect to a change
in the price of the underlying asset.
 Vega (Λ) measures the rate of change in an option price with respect to a change in market
volatility for the underlying asset price.
109

[Document: document.pdf, Page 112]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Shari’ah Implementation:
Bank that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of Shari’ah
and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Market Risk Standard, shall, for the
purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the relevant risk weighted asset
(RWA) in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner compliant to the Shari’ah.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
IV. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: Are issues rated AA- or better by Supranational issuers qualify for 0% specific
risk charge? For such issues, the Country of Risk = SNAT as classification in Bloomberg
would be considered as Supranational
No, there is no specification to supranational and thereby low risk charge.
Question 2: Please clarify whether futures or options on ETFs and volatility indices such
as VIX are treated as equity index instrument.
Yes, it will be part of equity and reported under equity derivative. Please refer to the Market risk
section of the standards for further guidance.
Question 3: Under the treatment of interest rate derivatives for general market risk, in
reference to table 3, credit derivatives have not been listed. Kindly advise if these products
are excluded from the capital requirement stipulated under general market risk.
Credit derivatives (including CDS and TRS) are subject to the general market risk treatment for
interest rate risk if the instrument involves periodic payments of interest. Credit derivatives are
subject to specific risk capital as described in paragraphs 26 and 27 of the Market Risk section of
the Standards. Note that Table 3 in the text covers only interest rate derivatives, and therefore
credit derivatives should not be included. Credit derivatives must be analysed whether they are
subject to the general market risk treatment for interest rate risk. For example, Credit Default
Swaps are usually not subject to general interest rate risk, whereas Total Return Swaps and credit
linked notes are usually subject to general market risk. Please note, that the analysis to which risk
types a specific instrument type is exposed, must be provided to the Central Bank upon request.
Question 4: Clarity is needed on what constitutes trading book. For example, Investment
Grade bonds classified as AFS, however with no active trading and a holding period of
almost till maturity (e.g. callable, decision to sell closer to maturity) does this need to be
banking book? Similarly, HTM under this description can be either trading or banking
book.
The Market Risk Standard as published does not change the definition of trading book. The
requirements of BCBS 128 paragraphs 685 to 689 have been applied in the text of the Standards.
Please refer to the Market Risk Regulation under Notice 3018/2018 for the full definition of trading
book.
Question 5: For Qualifying category, if the issuer of the security is a rated corporate by
any one of rated agencies i.e. Moody's, S&P, Fitch with investment grade. Should it be
included under Qualifying Category?
110

[Document: document.pdf, Page 113]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Yes, this will fall under qualifying category as long as it rated investment grade by at least two
credit rating agencies.
Question 6: Should general criteria for all investment grade securities other than
Government Issuers be taken under the category of Qualifying?
Yes, these instruments will be classified as qualifying provided in paragraphs 16-19.
Question 7: As per the Standards, "the separate legs of cross-currency swaps or forward
foreign exchange deals are to be treated as notional positions in the relevant instruments
and included in the appropriate calculation for each currency". Under which method these
are required to be included in MR-3 i.e Maturity method or Duration method.
General risk can be computed using Maturity and Duration approach. Paragraph 41 on
"Allowable offsetting of matched positions" of the market risk standard applies to both
approaches and depends on what approach the bank uses for reporting.
Question 8: If the options are hedged, do we need to input the numbers in the template.
If it is fully micro hedged, then Net Forward Purchase (Sales) & Delta weighted positions for
Options will be zero. Refer to VII Appendix: Prudent Valuation Guidance as part of Market risk
standard.
Question 9: Banks have the possibility to include the repo transactions in the trading book
for regulatory capital calculation even though they are accounted in the banking book?
Term trading-related repo-style transactions that meet the requirements for trading-book
treatment may be included in the bank’s trading book for regulatory capital purposes even if a
bank accounts for those transactions in the banking book. If the bank does so, all such repo-style
transactions must be included in the trading book, and both legs of such transactions, either cash
or securities, must be included in the trading book. Regardless of where they are booked, all repo-
style transactions are subject to a credit risk capital requirement under the Central Bank’s
Standards for Credit Risk Capital. The secured part of the exposure is risk weighted based on the
credit rating/type of the issuer the security serving as collateral, and the unsecured part is risk
weighted based on the credit rating/type (bank-sovereign-corporate) of the counterparty. In
addition, how/where the reporting should be under which risk type (e.g. interest rate risk (Specific
and/or General), FX, Equity, etc.) depends on the nature of the cash placement (one ‘leg’) and
that of the security/collateral (other ‘leg’). The two legs are reportable to the relevant market risk
type. For example, if the cash placement is floating rate and denominated in foreign currency it
would be reported under FX. In regards to position risk (interest rate and equity risk types), it
would be under General risk.
Question 10: How do we treat the capital charge when an exposure in the Banking book is
hedged via a derivative in the trading book?
As long as the position got an open leg under one of the two books (i.e. Banking or trading),
applicable capital charge should be taken in place. When a bank hedges a banking book credit
risk exposure using a credit derivative booked in its trading book (i.e. using an internal hedge),
the banking book exposure is not deemed to be hedged for capital purposes unless the bank
purchases from an eligible third party protection provider a credit derivative meeting the
requirements in the Central Bank’s Standards for Credit Risk. Where such third party protection
is purchased and is recognised as a hedge of a banking book exposure for regulatory capital
purposes, neither the internal nor external credit derivative hedge would be included in the trading
book for regulatory capital purposes.
111

[Document: document.pdf, Page 114]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 11: BCBS standards provides banks two options to include large swap books in
the maturity or duration ladder (Convert the payments into their present values or to
calculate the sensitivity of the net present value). It would be useful to clarify which
methods are acceptable.
Currently both methods are acceptable but to move forward with sensitivity or NPV approach, the
bank shall seek Central Bank approval by providing all relevant documents.
Question 12: How to treat Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), PSEs and GREs that
qualify 0% risk weight as per Credit Risk Section of the Standards for the “Qualifying”
criteria of Specific Risk?
All MDBs are considered “qualifying” for this purpose and will receive a RW of 0%.
PSE that meets the conditions to be treated like a sovereign for credit risk can be considered
“government" for specific risk.
Commercial GREs that are treated as corporates for credit risk should also be treated as
corporates for market risk, for consistency.
Question 13: Can the securities issued by local government be reported under
government? If yes, what capital charge will be applied?
Only if they qualify for treatment as “sovereign” under the credit risk framework, a 0% can be
applied.
Question 14: What is meant by 'broadly' in paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Market Risk
Standard. Any threshold for the size of the movement e.g. a negative correlation of more
than 0.6?
No, there is no specific threshold. "Broadly" in this context means "with close approximation," to
allow for minor deviations from perfect correlation. The bank should have a sensible policy to
ensure that objective, which should be subject to supervisory review.
Question 15: What is meant by "long term participation"? What is included in it?
Long-term participations could take a number of forms, but a typical example would be
investments accounted at historical cost (and in this context, denominated in a foreign currency).
Paragraph 65 edited for clear understanding.
Question 16: Do the banks have to meet certain criteria to apply duration or maturity
approach or is the choice of method fully within the bank's discretion?
Maturity approach shall be the initial approach to be used. In case the bank requires to apply
Duration approach, then banks will have to seek Central Bank consent to switch between the
approaches.
Question 17: Under Specific interest rate risk, what will be the treatment for the debt
securities that are denominated and funded in domestic currency or foreign currency?
The preferential treatment/national discretion will be applicable to GCC sovereign’s papers
denominated and funded in local currency. In addition, exposures to the Federal Government and
Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight, if such exposures are denominated and funded in
AED or USD for a transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard.
After the transition period, 0% risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated
and funded in AED. Elsewise (if denominated and funded in foreign currency and if the debt
security is not GCC sovereign paper) rating and residual maturity shall be applied.
Question 18: Interest Rate Risk: How are derivatives treated from a market risk and credit
risk perspective that a foreign branch has with its head office and other branches of the
112

[Document: document.pdf, Page 115]
CBUAE Classification: Public
group? Are all the derivative transactions under the umbrella of the group, can such
derivatives be excluded from the capital charge?
• Exemption is not eligible; all derivatives are to be included under credit and market risk.
• If the branch and the head office both have the same ISDA contract, netting and collateral
will not be eligible. However, if the ISDA contract contains only the deals from the branch,
then netting and collateral would be eligible.
• From Market risk perspective, if the bank's transactions are fully hedged, i.e. certain
derivatives with UAE customers are fully hedged back to back with the head office, then the
bank can offset for example the general and specific interest rate risks (based on