[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 11]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Policies and Procedures: An LFI should have policies and procedures that govern changes to its
transaction monitoring program which ensures that changes are defined, managed, controlled,
reported, and audited. Namely, LFIs should have governance protocols surrounding the design and
implementation of new detection scenarios; periodic assessment and validation of existing
detection scenarios; and retiring of detection scenarios. In addition, an LFI should develop a
procedure for the investigation and processing of transaction monitoring alerts in order to file an
STR, SAR, or other report type promptly and qualitatively. These policies and procedures should
cover the key processes for drafting and filing an STR, SAR, or other report type and other
regulatory reports. More broadly, policies and procedures work to manage key AML/CFT risks and
create processes for adherence across an LFI.
 Clear Lines of Responsibility and Reporting: In relation to suspicious transactions, an LFI should
have clear roles, responsibilities, and reporting lines, including reporting and escalations to the
Board of Directors and senior management. These roles, responsibilities, and reporting lines should
be clearly documented across all three lines of defense. Clear lines of responsibility help with
effectively identifying and reporting suspicious activity in a timely manner while ensuring that there
is appropriate and effective oversight of employees who engage in activities which may pose
greater AML/CFT risk. LFIs should also have a mechanism to inform senior management and the
Board of Directors (or a committee of the Board) of compliance initiatives, compliance deficiencies,
STRs or SARs (or other reports) filed, and corrective actions taken.
 Ongoing Training: Training should be provided on an ongoing basis to an LFI’s employees and
should include changes to the UAE’s legislative and regulatory frameworks; internal policies or
procedures; and understanding of evolving risk issues with respect to an LFI’s transaction
monitoring and suspicious activity reporting program. Training topics can include, but are not limited
to, thematic analysis of STRs or SARs; regulatory requirements and best practices related to STR
or SAR reporting; noteworthy STRs or SARs (or other reports) filed during the prior quarter; and
controls related to emerging financial crime risks. Training should be customized to include any
other internal data that would be beneficial to both the first line and second line of defense.
2.5.1. Considerations for Institutions with Foreign Branches and Subsidiaries
For LFIs operating in an international context, FATF Recommendation 18 recommends that financial groups
are required to implement group-wide AML/CFT programs applicable to foreign branches and majority-
owned subsidiaries. Recent major enforcement actions taken by supervisors in key jurisdictions have
highlighted the need to ensure that systems and controls are aligned across a financial group and that
foreign branches and majority-owned subsidiaries align AML/CFT measures with a financial group’s home
country requirements. As a result, LFIs have implemented global AML/CFT policies that outline a group risk
appetite and are managed in each jurisdiction to align to local regulatory or legislative requirements. To
support alignment of controls, LFIs operating across jurisdictions may seek to leverage the same control
solutions for key processes, such as customer screening or transaction monitoring, though there may be
different rules for different jurisdictions. For example, if the LFI operates in an economy which is known to
be more cash-based than another, the cash trigger rules in transaction monitoring may vary appropriately.
Centralized controls with operational centers of excellence also provide a means of ensuring alignment
across the group around systems and controls.
Page 11 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 12]
CBUAE Classification: Public
2.6. Transaction Monitoring Methods
The five key components to an effective transaction monitoring and reporting system are: (i) identification
of unusual or suspicious activity; (ii) managing alerts with an alert risk scoring model; (iii) STR or SAR
decision making; (iv) STR or SAR completion and filing; and (v) monitoring and STR or SAR filing on
continuing activity. To effectively identify unusual or potentially suspicious activity, LFIs should first maintain
a transaction monitoring program based on an underlying AML/CFT risk-based assessment. The
transaction monitoring program should take into account the AML/CFT risks of the LFI’s customers,
prospective customers, counterparties, businesses, products, services, delivery channels, and geographic
markets in addition to helping prioritize high-risk alerts. However, the sophistication of monitoring systems
can differ based on an LFI’s AML/CFT risks. Monitoring systems typically include employee identification
or referrals, transaction-based (manual) systems, surveillance (automated) systems, or a combination of
these. Overall, LFIs must adopt monitoring processes and procedures to monitor customer activity that are
commensurate with the size and nature of the line of business and the money laundering and the financing
of terrorism and illegal organisations’ risks posed by their relevant customer base. The monitoring system
and/or manual processes must reasonably demonstrate that transactions that carry the highest risk of
money laundering and financing of terrorism and illegal organisations are subject to enhanced scrutiny.
As part of a risk-based approach to AML/CFT, in the case of customers or Business Relationships identified
as high-risk, LFIs are expected to investigate and obtain more information about the purpose of
transactions, and to enhance ongoing monitoring and review of transactions in order to identify potentially
unusual or suspicious activities. In the case of customers or Business Relationships that are identified as
low-risk, LFIs may consider monitoring and reviewing transactions at a reduced frequency.
Examples of some of the methods that may be employed for the ongoing monitoring of transactions include,
but are not limited to:
 Threshold-based rules, in which transactions above certain pre-determined values, numerical
volumes, or aggregate amounts are examined;
 Transaction-based rules, in which the transactions of a certain type are examined;
 Location-based rules, in which the transactions involving a specific location (either as origin or
destination) are examined; and
 Customer-based rules, in which the transactions of particular customers are examined.
2.6.1. Manual Monitoring
An LFI may seek to utilize a manual transaction monitoring system, which typically targets specific
categories of transactions (e.g., those involving large amounts of cash, those to or from certain
geographies) and includes a manual review of various reports generated by the LFI’s systems in order to
identify unusual activity. The type and frequency of reviews and resulting reports used should be
commensurate with the LFI’s AML/CFT risk profile—including the nature, size, and complexity of its
operations—and properly cover customers, counterparties, businesses, products, services, delivery
channels, and geographic markets. System-generated reports typically use a certain currency threshold to
detect unusual activity. An LFI’s responsible senior employee should periodically evaluate the
appropriateness of filtering criteria and thresholds used in the monitoring process and periodically appraise
Page 12 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 13]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Senior Management and where required, notify the Board of Directors (as part of periodic updates), on the
appropriateness of design of manual monitoring reports. LFIs should be alert to the fact that complex and
evolving financial crime risks can undermine the effectiveness of manual monitoring systems, and therefore,
manual monitoring systems should also be independently reviewed for reasonable filtering criteria.
2.6.2. Automated Transaction Monitoring
Automated transaction monitoring systems can cover multiple types of transactions and use different rules
to identify potentially suspicious activity. In addition, many systems can adapt over time based on historical
activity, trends, or internal peer comparison. After parameters and filters have been developed, they should
be reviewed before implementation to identify any gaps in coverage to address potential financial crime
schemes that may not have been addressed. LFIs should also seek to have appropriate case management
systems so that such funds or transactions are scrutinized in a timely manner and a determination is made
as to whether the funds or transaction are suspicious.
Once established, the LFI should review and test system capabilities and thresholds on a periodic basis,
commensurate to its risk profile. This review should focus on specific parameters or filters in order to ensure
that intended information is accurately captured, and that the parameter or filter is appropriate for the LFI’s
particular risk profile, including the applicability of the detection scenarios, underlying rules, threshold
values, and assumptions used. An LFI should also aim to review its transaction monitoring program at least
annually to account for changes in the LFI’s internal procedures; local laws and regulations; and best
practices.
Relatedly, the authorization to establish or alter expected activity profiles should be clearly defined through
policies and procedures. An LFI’s internal controls should ensure limited access to the monitoring systems,
and changes should require the approval of the Compliance Officer, MLRO, or senior management. The
LFI should implement a robust end-to-end, pre- and post-implementation testing procedure of its transaction
monitoring program with documentation detailing current detection scenarios and the underlying
assumptions, parameters, and thresholds applied.
Employees appointed by the LFI should also be responsible for the design, planning, implementation,
operation, testing, validation, and on-going analysis of the transaction monitoring program, which may
extend to assessing the timely review and decision-making of generated alerts and potential STR or SAR
filings. Such employees should be responsible for independently validating an LFI’s transaction monitoring
system's programming methodology and effectiveness to ensure that the LFI’s automated transaction
monitoring system is effectively detecting potentially suspicious activity. These appointed employees
should also ensure that customer segments, customer types, and transactions/transaction codes are
mapped into the transaction monitoring system, and that the transaction monitoring system is integrated
with the LFI’s core banking and other relevant system. Independent validation should also take place of an
LFI’s policies with an aim to assess if employees are adhering to these policies. This is especially important
to validate the proper use of automated tools and to ensure that the application of information technology
instruments or algorithms—often leveraged by LFIs to reduce the number of false positives in their
transaction monitoring programs—is not inadvertently suppressing instances of reportable suspicious
activity. Where appropriate, the LFI, in lieu of maintaining full time employees to perform aforementioned
functions, may hire qualified specialist consultants or external vendors to provide such review services.
Page 13 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 14]
CBUAE Classification: Public
2.6.3. Intelligence-led Transaction Monitoring Approach
LFIs have begun to invest in forming and developing their own intelligence units or capabilities. By
establishing such units or capabilities, these units seek to maximize the use of data and information
available both internally—within the LFI—and externally—across jurisdictions and businesses—in order to
tackle money laundering, the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations, and fraud schemes, as well
as to consolidate analytical capacity and remove any jurisdictional and business silos. This has led some
LFIs to shift from a pure transaction-level monitoring approach towards adopting a “customer-level” or
“network” monitoring approach. Under this approach, previous investigations can be applied to inform and
refine risk models, which can then be used to customize monitoring for different business lines and
customer types. These enhancements are focused on looking beyond single transactions or single
customers to identify the wider network in which a customer operates—looking at the customer as an
entity—enabling LFIs to manage networks of accounts and report on these networks, that in turn, increases
opportunities to disrupt that network. This model moves reporting away from reports of single suspicious
transactions towards suspicious entities and networks with a view on how the funds flow between them.
3. Procedures for the Reporting of Suspicious Transactions
All customers and accounts should be subject to monitoring under a risk-based approach in order to identify
potentially suspicious transactions, patterns, as well as behavior that is inconsistent with past behavior on
the account or with the anticipated activity on the account as determined at onboarding. Alerts on such
behavior are risk relevant indicators of potentially suspicious activity. Upon identifying unusual or potentially
suspicious activity, an LFI’s employees must review and, as appropriate, escalate the activity for further
investigation or immediate action.
Although the process for reviewing unusual or potentially suspicious activity for further investigation or
immediate action is not outlined in this guidance, LFIs should establish a process to investigate such
activity, including developing policies and procedures that document the process for deciding whether to
close the alert or to promptly report the transaction as suspicious and should include guidance on capturing
detailed descriptions for the manner in which the alerts were either disposed of by reporting or closure of
the alerts. For the purposes of this guidance, best practices are discussed once activity is determined to
meet one or more of the regulatory definitions of suspicious activity and when an LFI decides to report such
activity to the FIU by filing an STR, SAR, or other report type.
3.1. Importance of Filing an STR and SAR
The information generated from an STR, SAR, and other report type is important for identifying and
combatting financial crime. First, the quality of STRs, SARs, and other report types is imperative for
increasing the FIU’s analytical function to identify vulnerabilities and threats to the UAE financial system
and develop an overall understanding of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and illegal
organisations’ risks based on emerging trends and patterns. Relatedly, STRs, SARs, and other report types
also assist law enforcement in detecting criminal actors and preventing the flow of illicit funds through the
UAE financial system. Law enforcement uses the intelligence generated from STRs, SARs, and other report
types to initiate and supplement money laundering or terrorist financing investigations and other criminal
Page 14 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 15]
CBUAE Classification: Public
cases. As a result, it is critical that the information provided in all reports of suspicious activity be as
accurate, timely, and complete as possible.
3.2. Basic Structure of an STR or SAR
The Compliance Officer or MLRO and other concerned employees responsible for using the goAML system
must be aware of the different report types. As such, the LFI should select the correct report type when
filing a report through the goAML system. The STR and SAR are the primary (or first instance) reports
which must be used to report a new suspicion, whereas Additional Information File without Transactions
(“AIF”) and Additional Information File with Transactions (“AIFT”) report types are supplementary reports
which can be used to escalate additional information or transactions that correspond to a previously filed
STR or SAR. When filing an AIF or AIFT, the LFI should input the Reference Number that corresponds to
the STR or SAR.
 STR: If, during the establishment or course of the customer relationship, or when conducting
transactions on behalf of a customer or an occasional customer, an LFI suspects transactions are
related to money laundering, related predicate offenses, or the financing of terrorism or illegal
organisations, then the LFI should submit an STR to the FIU within the timelines established in this
guidance.
 SAR: If, during the establishment or course of the customer relationship, an LFI suspects any
activity or an attempted transaction (i.e., a non-executed transaction) can be related to money
laundering, related predicate offenses, or the financing of terrorism or illegal organisations, then
the LFI should submit a SAR to the FIU within the timelines established in this guidance.
 Additional Information File (“AIF”) without Transactions: Should the FIU require any further details
while reviewing an STR or SAR, then the LFI that originally submitted the report may be solicited
for further information by receiving an AIF request from the FIU through the Message Board. Should
such a situation arise, the LFI is required to submit an AIF based report through the goAML