
1.3.3. Meaning of Suspicious Transaction
Within the AML-CFT Law and its AML-CFT Decision, a suspicious transaction refers to any transaction,
attempted transaction, or funds for which an LFI has reasonable grounds to suspect as constituting—in
whole or in part, and regardless of the amount or the timing - any of the following:
 The proceeds of crime (Money laundering and related predicate offenses, or financing of terrorism
or illegal organisations);
 Being related to the crimes of money laundering and related predicate offences, the financing of
terrorism or illegal organisations; and
 Being intended to be used in an activity related to such crimes.
The AML-CFT Law and its AML-CFT Decision define a predicate offence as “any act constituting an offense
or misdemeanour under the applicable laws of the State whether this act is committed inside or outside the
State when such act is punishable in both countries.”
It should be noted that the only requirement for a transaction to be considered as suspicious is “reasonable
grounds” in relation to the conditions referenced above. Thus, the suspicious nature of a transaction can
be inferred from certain information, including indicators; financial/transactional and behavioral patterns;
Customer Due Diligence (“CDD”) information; or adverse media information, and it is not dependent on
Page 6 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 7]
CBUAE Classification: Public
obtaining evidence that a predicate offense has actually occurred or on proving the illicit source of the
proceeds involved. LFIs do not need to have knowledge of the underlying criminal activity nor any founded
suspicion that the proceeds originate from a criminal activity; reasonable grounds to suspect any such
criminal activity are sufficient.
LFIs should also note that suspicious transactions need not be completed, in progress, or pending
completion. Attempted transactions, transactions that are not executed and past transactions, regardless
of their timing or completion status, which are found upon review to cause reasonable grounds for suspicion,
must be reported in accordance with the relevant requirements.
1.4. Acronyms
Terms Description
AIF Additional Information File without Transactions
AIFT Additional Information File with Transactions
Anti-Money Laundering / Combatting the Financing of Terrorism and
AML / CFT
Illegal Organisations
CBUAE Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates
CDD Customer Due Diligence
EDD Enhanced Due Diligence
FATF Financial Action Task Force
FIU Financial Intelligence Unit
HRC High Risk Country Transaction Report
HRCA High Risk Country Activity Report
KYC Know Your Customer
QC Quality Control
Report Any STR, SAR, AIF, AIFT, RFI, or RFIT based report
RFI Request for Information without Transactions
RFIT Request for Information with Transactions
RFR Reason For Reporting
SAR Suspicious Activity Report
STR Suspicious Transaction Report
2. Identification of Suspicious Transactions
2.1. Role of the First Line of Defense
Employees within the first line of defense (e.g., relationship managers, business executives, and back-
office operations functions) should understand the AML/CFT risks posed to the business in which they
work. First line of defense employees are central to the management of customer and third-party risk and
Page 7 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 8]
CBUAE Classification: Public
the timely escalation of potentially suspicious activity. LFIs should not rely solely on transaction monitoring
systems to identify unusual and potentially suspicious activity in their customer population. First line of
defense employees play a critical role in the detection and prevention of money laundering and the financing
of terrorism and illegal organisations. Appropriately trained employees are in fact well-placed to identify
suspicious transactions and assess that information once deemed reasonable—collected through
interactions with a customer—now appears suspicious. They should therefore be trained regarding
potential risk and risk mitigation and reporting within their business area. Employees should understand the
regulatory requirements within the scope of their role; red flags associated with their customers, products,
services, delivery channels, and geographies; and the appropriate escalation procedure both to their
management and to the second line of defense without compromising their responsibility to report
suspicious transactions.
2.2. Role of the Second Line of Defense
The second line of defense (e.g., compliance employees) provides policy advice, guidance, assurance,
oversight, and challenge to the first line of defense. While employees in Financial Crime Operations Units
(possibly in the first line of defense) can investigate suspicious transactions and document the resultant
investigation, the ultimate filing of the STR or SAR must be made by the Compliance Officer or the MLRO
(in the second line of defense). To this end, the second line of defense is charged with overseeing the
investigations programme comprised of both automated and manual monitoring processes. The second
line of defense is also charged with monitoring risks facing the LFI, such as noncompliance with UAE laws
and regulations, and reporting directly to senior management on the LFI’s risk exposure, including through
financial crime-related metrics. Specifically, the second line of defense and first line of defense (as
applicable) should generate financial crime-related metrics (e.g., STRs or SARs filed, alert backlogs) to
provide senior management with an adequate overview of the LFI’s compliance program, including the
timeliness and quality of the LFI’s handling and resolution of transaction monitoring alerts and the STR or
SAR filing process. The second line of defense should retain records of all information relating to transaction
monitoring and suspicious activity reporting for a period of no less than five (5) years as provided in Article
24 of the AML-CFT Decision.
2.2.1. Role of the Compliance Officer / MLRO
According to Article 21 of the AML-CFT Decision, LFIs are required to appoint a Compliance Officer with
the appropriate competencies and experience to perform the necessary tasks to:
 Detect transactions relating to any crime as defined in Article 1 of the AML-CFT Decision.
 Review, scrutinize, and study records; receive data concerning suspicious transactions; and make
decisions to either notify the FIU or maintain the transaction with a documented rationale for
maintaining the transaction while upholding confidentiality requirements.
 Review the internal rules and procedures relating to combating the crime and their consistency with
relevant laws and regulations; assess the extent to which the LFI is committed to the application of
these rules and procedures; propose what is needed to update and develop these rules and
procedures; prepare and submit semi-annual reports on these points to senior management; and
send a copy of that report to the relevant supervisory authority with senior management remarks
and decisions.
Page 8 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 9]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Prepare, execute, and document ongoing training and development programs and plans for the
LFI’s employees on money laundering and the financing of terrorism and financing of illegal
organisations, and the means to combat them.
 Collaborate with the supervisory authority and FIU, provide them with all requested data, and allow
their authorized employees to view the necessary records and documents that will allow them to
perform their duties.
According to CBUAE’s Guidelines, the Compliance Officer is the LFI’s money laundering reporting officer
(“MLRO”) charged with reviewing, scrutinizing, and reporting STRs and other reports pertaining to
suspicious activity. In this capacity, the Compliance Officer or MLRO is ultimately responsible for the
detection of transactions related to money laundering and financing of terrorism and illegal organisations;
for reporting suspicions to the FIU; implementing the appropriate actions following an STR, SAR, or other
report filing (e.g., ensuring the STR or SAR subject is input into the relevant list for close monitoring or
internal watchlists/blacklists; changing the customer risk rating; etc.); and for cooperating with the relevant
authorities on AML/CFT matters. The Compliance Officer or MLRO is ultimately responsible to ensure that
an appropriate programme exists in the LFI and that the LFI effectively deploys a risk-based approach to
detect and report suspicious activity.
The Compliance Officer or MLRO should also act as the primary point of contact with law enforcement
agencies for their requests and investigations. The Compliance Officer or MLRO is responsible for liaising
with regulators and external bodies on financial crime issues in order to share knowledge, report cases,
develop best practices, and where possible, to improve coordination within the financial sector.
2.3. Role of the Third Line of Defense
The independent testing function is responsible for evaluating the design and operational effectiveness of
an LFI’s compliance program controls, including technical compliance with AML/CFT policies and
procedures. This function serves as a “third line of defense” to identify gaps, deficiencies, and weaknesses
in operational controls owned or overseen by an LFI’s business, operations, and compliance functions.
Independent testing should be conducted by an internal audit department, outside auditors, consultants,
and/or other qualified, independent third parties. At a minimum, employees responsible for conducting
independent testing should not be involved in the function being tested or in other AML/CFT functions that
could compromise their independence. Risk-based auditing assists an LFI’s Board of Directors and senior
management in identifying areas of weakness, prioritizing those areas for remediation, and ensuring the
provision of adequate resources, oversight, and training for affected employees.
2.4. Purpose of Transaction Monitoring
The purpose of transaction monitoring is the ongoing, retrospective monitoring of customers’ and
prospective customers’ transactions or activity to identify activity anomalous from normal behavior. This
may, on further investigation, generate knowledge or reasonable suspicion of financial crime and thereby
require reporting to the appropriate law enforcement and/or regulatory authority as an STR, SAR, or
equivalent local report in line with AML/CFT regulatory and/or UAE FIU reporting requirements. LFIs may
choose to use a combination of automated transaction monitoring scenarios and exception-based (manual)
transaction reports to monitor for potentially suspicious activity. The aim of the alert review process is to
identify and respond to potential indicators of money laundering, associated predicate offenses, financing
Page 9 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 10]
CBUAE Classification: Public
of terrorism and illegal organisations , financing of proliferation, and any potentially unusual activity that
does not align to a customer’s or account's profile including by deploying a risk-based approach. An LFI’s
transaction monitoring systems and manual processes should be reviewed, assessed, and revised
periodically—at least annually—and otherwise as appropriate, justified by the required circumstances.
Additionally, this review should include both an evaluation of transaction monitoring system thresholds and
a fine tuning of the LFI’s transaction monitoring system as well as an evaluation of its effectiveness. The
individuals responsible for the review should have a proper understanding of the LFI’s framework—
including the LFI's business and customer base—to generate a meaningful output.
2.5. Internal Organization
In order for an LFI’s transaction monitoring and suspicious activity reporting program to be effective, it must
be based on the foundation of a sound governance structure. Namely, an LFI’s internal organization is
important to appropriately identifying unusual or potentially suspicious activity. Internal organization
comprises an LFI’s policies, procedures, and processes designed to oversee and manage risks and to
achieve compliance with UAE AML/CFT laws and regulations. In particular, an LFI’s internal organization
addresses the core organizational elements of an LFI’s compliance program: governance and management
oversight; policies and procedures; clear lines of responsibility and reporting; and ongoing training to
account for changes in the UAE’s legislative and regulatory frameworks.
 Governance and Management Oversight: Governance and management oversight helps to ensure
that an LFI’s compliance program is appropriately funded, staffed, and equipped with the requisite
technology, including to identify and report suspicious activity. An LFI’s Board of Directors also
ensures that the compliance program has an appropriately prominent status within the organization
and is operationally independent. In this capacity, senior management, inclusive of the Compliance
Officer, within a compliance program should have the appropriate authority; independence; access
to employees and information within the organization; and appropriate resources to conduct their
activities—including the identification and reporting of suspicious activity—effectively. The
compliance program should have access to the Board of Directors or a designated board committee
to raise any issues or risks; report on the status of ongoing compliance; and escalate any other
pertinent AML/CFT-related information.
 As part of an LFI’s risk management framework, senior management and an LFI’s Board of
Directors should oversee the design, implementation, and maintenance of a transaction monitoring
and suspicious activity reporting program based on an LFI’s AML/CFT risks and in accordance with
all applicable laws and regulations. Senior management should likewise oversee a vendor selection
process (as applicable) if a third-party vendor is used to acquire, install, implement, or test a
transaction monitoring program or any aspect of identifying and reporting suspicious activity,
among other responsibilities. The Compliance Officer (or MLRO) shall periodically update the
Board of Directors (or a committee of the Board) on the overall capability framework (that includes
technology and process aspects of suspicious activity identification, investigation and reporting
aspects).
Page 10 of 46