[Document: PII.pdf, Page 1]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 2
149

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 2]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 2 – Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP)
I. Introduction and Purpose
1. All banks licensed by the Central Bank of the UAE must ensure that Pillar 1 risks -
credit, market, and operational risk - are mitigated by capital, in compliance with the capital
adequacy framework articulated in the document Central Bank “Regulations re Capital
Adequacy” issued under Notice 60/2017 and the supporting capital standards and guidance,
articulated in the document Central Bank “Standards and Guidance re Capital Adequacy of
Banks in the UAE”. Incompliance with the Standards, each bank is required to quantify all risks
that are not covered, or not sufficiently covered by Pillar 1 capital, and determine the additional
capital required to mitigate these risks. The capital required to cover these risks is referred to
as Pillar 2 capital.
2. Each bank is required to have a process to assess its overall capital adequacy as a
function of its risk profile and its strategy. Each bank is required to maintain appropriate capital
levels in accordance with the Central Bank Standards on Pillar 2 capital. This process is termed
the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).
3. As part of the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP), the Central Bank
analyses the capitalisation levels of banks among other information, referring to the results of
the ICAAP with regard to the internal view of capital adequacy. If the evaluation concludes that
the capital levels of the individual bank are not satisfactory, the Central Bank may require a
bank to meet an adjusted Minimum Capital Adequacy ratio accordingly.
4. Consequently, Pillar 2 is both a bank internal process reported under the ICAAP, and
the evaluation of each bank’s compete capital adequacy includes the ICAAP in its regulatory
process - the SREP. First, it is the responsibility of each bank to ensure that its ICAAP is
comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale, and complexity of its activities. Each
bank bears the responsibility for the appropriate identification, estimation, and reporting of
risks, and the corresponding the calibration of capital necessary to mitigate these risks.
Second, the ICAAP is a critical reference for supervision and for the supervisory dialogue
between banks and Central Bank.
Purpose
5. This Guidance presents minimum expected practices to be considered by each bank
in order to undertake their ICAAP, covering the process, content, outcome, and usage. It
clarifies the application of the Central Bank’s expectations regarding the requirements of the
Central Bank ICAAP Standards. Note, that the Central Bank plans to issue separately detailed
requirements relating to the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP).
6. It also intends to support each bank in the identification, measurement, reporting, and
mitigation of Pillar 2 risks. This Guidance does not prescribe specific methodologies but rather,
it provides a framework, within which a bank should elaborate research, analyse, and draw
conclusions relevant to the risk profiles of their books. Each bank remains fully responsible for
the methodology and process supporting the ICAAP.
7. All methodologies employed by a bank for its ICAAP should be relevant to its business
model, risk profile, to the geographies of its exposures, and, in particular, to the features of the
UAE economy. The methodologies and processes employed by the bank in its ICAAP should
be fully documented, transparent and replicable. Each bank should be in a position to justify
their decisions and modelling choices with historical data and benchmarking across a range of
practices, which will be subject to supervisory scrutiny. Models employed for the measurement
150

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 3]
CBUAE Classification: Public
of Pillar 2 risks should comply with the Central Bank Model Management Standards and
Guidance.
8. The Central Bank may apply proportionality for smaller and less complex banks when
evaluating the ICAAP. This does not mean that smaller or less complex banks are exempted
from the reporting requirements or from undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the risks
they face. Smaller banks have to perform the whole ICAAP and address the full reporting
scope. In cases where a bank’s capabilities lead them to use simpler methodologies, a more
conservative capital treatment may be appropriate. However, the Central Bank expects a more
sophisticated risk management approach from large banks and/ or banks with complex risk
profiles in the assessment of their Pillar 2 risks.
9. For the licensed operations of foreign banks in the UAE, when this document refers to
the bank’s Board, it should be comprehended as the Managing Director and/ or the highest
committee in the UAE operations of the bank in which the Managing Director has to be the
Chairman.
10. This Guidance serves several purposes. It
(i) Explains in more detail the Central Bank’s expectations on fulfilling the
requirements of the ICAAP Capital Standards, in particular, related to the ICAAP
(process) at each bank and certain aspects of the content of the ICAAP report;
(ii) Covers expectations on some processual elements of the ICAAP, such as an
appropriate approval process of the ICAAP report and its submission timelines;
and
(iii) Formulates expectations about additional sections of the ICAAP report (e.g.
related to internal audit findings and changes compared to the previous ICAAP
report).
II. ICAAP Executive Summary
11. It is important that the executive summary of the ICAAP document produced by each
bank should explain the views of Senior Management and the Board on the suitability of the
bank’s capital to cover the risks faced by the bank in light of its risk profile, its risk appetite and
its future business plans. These views must be supported by key quantitative results including
the current and expected capital position of the bank under various economic conditions
including stressed circumstances. It should also provide a clear analysis of the drivers of
capital consumption, including Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks and stress testing. The conclusion
should be unambiguous, forward-looking and consider the uncertainty of the business and
economic conditions.
12. More specifically, the executive summary of the ICAAP report should contain the
following elements:
(i) The main findings of the ICAAP;
(ii) A brief description of the ICAAP governance framework covering the
stakeholders, the assessment process, the challenging process and the
approval process;
(iii) A brief presentation of the bank’s structure, subsidiaries, businesses, material
risks, risk appetite, and risk mitigating actions, where applicable;
(iv) A description of the current capital position of the bank showing the allocation of
capital per risk type, covering Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks;
(v) Each bank should complete the ICAAP Executive Summary Table (Table 3) as
151

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 4]
CBUAE Classification: Public
indicated in Appendix 2 of this document;
(vi) A description of the current capital composition of the bank against minimum
capital requirements covering at least CET1, AT1, and Tier 2 capital ratios;
(vii) A forward-looking analysis of the budgeted capital position of the bank, based
on the bank’s expected business plan over the next three (3) years, reflecting
the current, and expected economic conditions. This needs to cover expected
dividend distribution;
(viii) An analysis of the capital position and capital ratios under several stress
scenarios, the analysis of the stress scenarios should include the intended risk
mitigation actions;
(ix) An assessment of the adequacy of the bank’s risk management processes
including critical judgment on the areas that need improvement; and
(x) A conclusion of the ICAAP addressing the suitability of the capital to cover the
bank’scurrent and expected risks.
13. Appendix 3.4 lists further information and documentation that is required to accompany
a bank’s ICAAP report.
III. ICAAP Governance
14. Given the critical and major role of the ICAAP in banks’ sustainability and strategy, the
Board of Directors is required to approve the ICAAP. The ICAAP should be subject to an
effective decision-making process, by which the assumptions, projections, and conclusions
are thoroughly discussed, analysed, and challenged at several levels in the organisation
including (i) the relevant committees of subject matter experts, (ii) Senior Management, and
(iii) the Board.
15. The Board has ultimate ownership and responsibility of the ICAAP. It is required to
approve an ICAAP on a yearly basis. The Board is also expected to approve the ICAAP
governance framework with a clear and transparent assignment of responsibilities, adhering
to the segregation of functions, as described in Refer to Appendix 3.1. The governance
framework should ensure that the ICAAP is an integral part of the bank’s management process
and decision-making. The ICAAP governance framework should include a clear approach to