[Document: PI.pdf, Page 15 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 5: Threshold Deduction
This Appendix is meant to clarify the reporting of threshold deduction and calculation of the 10%
limit on significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions
(banks, insurance and other financial entities); and the 10% limit on deferred tax assets arising
from temporary differences.
CET1 Capital (prior to regulatory deductions) 1000
Regulatory deductions: 300
Total CET1 after the regulatory adjustments above (CET1C) 700
Total amount of significant investments in the common share of banking, financial
and insurance entities 150
Total amount of Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences 150
DTA that rely on future profitability Significant investments in the
and arise from temporary difference unconsolidated financial institutions
150 150
Excess over Excess over
Amount below 10% of CET1C Amount below 10% of CET1C
10% of CET1 10% of CET1
70 70
C: C:
Deduct from Aggregate the amount below 10% threshold Deduct from
CET1C 140 (70+70) CET1C
Calculate 17.65 % of CET1*
CET1* = 400 (1000-300-150-150) or
CET1* = CET1 D (700-80-80) – Aggregated amount below 10% threshold
(140)
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
below 17.65% of CET1* above 17.65% of CET1*
Risk Weight (250%) Deduct from CET1 D
70.60 69.40 (140-70.60)
*This is a “hypothetical” amount of CET1 that is used only for the purpose of determining the
deduction of above two items for the aggregate limit. Amount of CET1 = Total CET1 (prior to
deduction) – All the deduction except the threshold deduction (i.e. all deduction outlined in para
44 to 68 of the Tier Capital Supply Standards) minus the total amount of both DTA that rely on
future profitability and arise from temporary difference and significant investments in the
unconsolidated financial institutions.
16

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 16]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 6: Effective Countercyclical Buffer
Assume a bank has the following capital ratios
Capital Base Minimum Capital Bank's Capital Ratio
Requirements
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 7.00% 9.50%
Tier 1 Capital Ratio 8.50% 0.00%
Tier 2 Capital Ratio 2.00% 4.00%
Total Capital Ratio 10.50% 13.50%
From the above table, the bank has fulfilled all minimum capital requirements. In addition, the
bank has to meet the additional capital buffers:
Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) 2.50%
Countercyclical Buffer 0.00%
D- SIB 1.00%
Aggregated Buffer requirement (effective CCB) 3.50%
The table below shows the adjusted quartiles accordingly:
Freely available Minimum Capital Conservation
CET 1 Ratio Ratios (expressed as a percentage of
earnings)
Within 1st quartile of buffer: 0.0 % - 0.875% 100 %
Within 2nd quartile of buffer: > 0.875% - 1.75% 80 %
Within 3rd quartile of buffer: > 1.75% - 2.625% 60 %
Within 4th quartile of buffer: > 2.625% - 3.5% 40 %
Above top of the buffer: > 3.5% 0 %
As the bank does not have Additional Tier 1, the bank has to use 8.5% of its available CET1 to
fulfill the minimum Tier 1 requirement of 8.5%. Only the proportion of CET1 that is not allocated
to fulfill the minimum capital requirements is freely available to fulfill the buffer requirement. For
this bank, 1% CET1 is freely available, because the bank already used 8.5% of its CET1 to fulfill
the Tier 1 ratio. (9.5% available CET1 - 8.5% CET1 required to fulfill the Tier 1 minimum
requirement of 8.5%).
Impact: The bank breaches the effective CCB with 1% freely available CET1. Capital conservation
is required by at least 80% of the bank’s earnings. Distributions to shareholders is limited to
maximal 20% of the bank’s earnings (Central Bank approval of dividends still required).
17

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 17]
CBUAE Classification: Public
II. Tier Capital Instruments
I. Introduction
1. This guidance explains how banks should comply with the Tier Capital Instruments
Standard. It must be read in conjunction with the Capital Regulation and Standards for Capital
Adequacy of Banks in the UAE. It also ensures that banks issue robust and simple Tier capital
instruments.
2. A bank needs to take into consideration the below points when issuing capital publicly or
privately:
a. The Central Bank expects that issuers will formulate the terms and conditions so that they
are not complex, but as simple and as clear as possible.
b. Prudential clauses of importance from a prudential point of view should not be written in
italics. They should also not be worded in a way that makes it unclear whether they do
actually apply (e.g. ‘it is expected that’, ‘if required by the regulation’, etc.). Terms and
conditions must be worded clearly.
c. The wording used must be in accordance with that in the Capital Standards/ Guidance.
d. The text should avoid making references to ‘as determined by the bank’ or to regulatory
reporting dates. All requirements must be fulfilled at any time.
e. It is not desirable to specify the reference to say ‘under applicable law’ or ‘if required by
the applicable banking rules’ when it is clear that legal requirements come directly from
the Central Bank, Capital Regulation, Standards or as Guidance.
f. A detailed list may easily create the impression that the list maybe exhaustive. The bank
has to clearly note when a list is not exhaustive.
Distributable Items:
3. The definition of distributable items may change when the Central Bank introduces the
solo level concept.
Subordination:
4. Additional Tier 1 instruments willrank below Tier 2 instruments by virtue of subordination.
The instrument should not be subject to set-off or netting arrangements that would undermine the
instrument's capacity to absorb losses.
Redemption Notices:
5. Where a notice has not been revoked as of the relevant date, it follows that a payment is
due to the holder. Any non-payment thereafter may trigger an enforcement event. Any notice for
redemption should become void and null as soon as the Central Bank declares that a PONV
trigger event has occurred.
Call of Instruments:
a. Optional Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument at its option but only
after a period of 5 years.
18

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 18]
CBUAE Classification: Public
b. Regulatory Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument in case of a capital
event so that they become or, as appropriate, remain, qualified regulatory capital.
However, the amount in case of a capital event can be the outstanding amount or the
amount that qualifies as regulatory capital, if some amount of the instrument is held by the
issuer or whose purchase is funded by the issuer, save where such non-qualification is only
as a result of any applicable limitation on the amount of such capital.
c. Tax Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instruments in case of a tax event.
A tax event may occur at any time on or after the issue date. A tax event can occur as a
result of a change in the applicable tax treatment of the instrument.
Note that both the optional call and the tax call require the Central Bank’s approval.
Changes of Terms and conditions:
a. Insignificant Changes to Terms and Conditions (Variation):
The issuer may vary the terms and conditions of the instrument subject to the condition of
redemption in the Tier capital instrument Standard. Variation of the terms and conditions of the
instrument can occur on optional call regulatory call, or tax call. Changes must be legally
enforceable.
b. Significant Changes to Terms and Conditions:
Significant changes to the terms and conditions of the instrument will require the approval of the
holders. Every instrument that undergoes significant changes needs to meet all requirements of
the Tier Capital Instruments Standard.
Every instrument with changed terms and conditions need to be re-approved by the Central Bank
by applying Stage 2 of the Approval Process in Appendix B of the Tier Capital Instruments
Standard (Stage 1 of the Approval Process can be omitted in this case).
Coupon Payments:
6. No provision should link a change in payments to contractual, statutory or other
obligations, as payments are fully discretionary. Payments should also not be linked to payments
on other Additional Tier 1 instruments.
Dividend and Redemption Restrictions:
7. Dividend stopper arrangements that prevent for example dividend payments on common
shares are not prohibited by the Central Bank. Furthermore, dividend stopper arrangements that
prevent dividend payments on other Additional Tier 1 instruments are not prohibited by Central
Bank. However, stoppers must not impede the full discretion that bank must have at all times to