
Monitoring crime and thereby require reporting to the appropriate law enforcement and/or regulatory authority as an STR, SAR, or equivalent local report in
line with AML/CFT regulatory and/or UAE FIU reporting requirements.
An LFI’s internal organization is important to appropriately identify unusual or potentially suspicious activity. Internal organization comprises an
LFI’s governance and management oversight; policies and procedures; clear lines of responsibility and reporting; and ongoing training to account
Internal Organization
for changes in the UAE’s legislative and regulatory frameworks. There are also specific considerations for institutions with foreign branches and
subsidiaries.
A transaction monitoring program should take into account the AML/CFT risks of the LFI’s customers, prospective customers, counterparties,
Transaction Monitoring businesses, products, services, delivery channels, and geographic markets in addition to helping prioritize high-risk alerts. Monitoring systems
Methods typically include employee identification or referrals, transaction-based (manual) systems, surveillance (automated) systems, or a combination of
these, including an intelligence-led transaction monitoring approach.
Page 43 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 44]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Information generated from an STR, SAR, and other report type is important for law enforcement and the FIU to effectively identify and
Importance of Filing an combat financial crime. Specifically, the quality of STRs, SARs, and other report types is imperative for increasing the FIU’s analytical
STR or SAR function to identify vulnerabilities and threats to the UAE financial system and develop an overall understanding of money laundering and
the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations risks.
Basic Structure of an Different report types can be filed in the FIU’s “goAML” portal (i.e., STR, SAR, AIF, AIFT, RFI, RFIT, HRC, HRCA). In addition, an LFI
STR or SAR should divide a narrative into three sections (introduction, body, and conclusion).
Procedures for
the Reporting of Best Practices for A narrative should identify and answer the five questions – who? what? when? where? and why? – of the suspicious activity being
Suspicious Drafting an STR or reported to the FIU in addition to the operation/modus operandi (or how?). The Guidance also addresses how defensive STR or SAR
Transactions SAR filings are generally discouraged.
LFIs are required to submit suspicious transaction and activity reports directly to the FIU using the “goAML” portal. There are certain
How to Submit an STR
mandatory fields that an LFI should populate when submitting a report in the goAML portal in addition to providing certain supplemental
or SAR
documents.
Amendments to Once a report is submitted and accepted in the goAML system, changes cannot be applied, including amendments for missing or incorrect
Submitted Reports information. However, LFIs may file a corresponding AIF, AIFT, RFI, or RFIT.
In the absence of escalation for expedited review, LFIs are expected to file an STR/SAR within a maximum of 35 business days from the
date of automated alert generation. The establishment of adequate grounds of suspicion may involve the investigation procedures as per
Alert Review, Case
the LFIs' AML and/or Financial Crime Compliance policies and procedures. LFIs are expected to complete the required investigative
Investigation, and
procedures as expeditiously as possible. LFIs must maintain adequately detailed records of investigative procedures performed against
STR/SAR Decision
alerts and when filing an STR/SAR, must include a summary justifying the time taken to establish grounds of suspicion. In the event of
Making and Filing
escalation for expedited review, the Compliance Officer or MLRO should file an STR or SAR to the FIU within 24 hours of the determination.
All prospective STRs or SARs should be reviewed for accuracy and completeness prior to filing, in accordance with applicable procedures.
Monitoring and
Upon filing an STR/SAR pertaining to an account holder, LFIs are expected to implement enhanced monitoring on such account holders. In
Reporting of
the case of continued suspicious activity detected against said account holder, LFIs are expected to expeditiously file an STR/SAR with the
Timing of Alert Continuing Suspicious
FIU.
Reviews and Activity
STR Filings Situations requiring immediate attention include reportable violations that are ongoing (e.g., part of an ongoing money laundering scheme
Activity Requiring
as indicated by an appropriate law enforcement authority) and transactions that the LFI suspects are related to the financing of terrorism
Immediate Attention
and illegal organisations.
If the LFI designates an investigation as “complex”, the LFI should submit an initial STR or SAR to the FIU within 15 business days of the
Exceptions for alert generation. The initial STR/SAR should be labelled as a “Complex investigation” to the FIU. Following the initial STR or SAR filing,
Complex Investigations t he LFI has an additional 30 business days to obtain all necessary information related to the complex investigation and submit a follow-up
STR or SAR to the FIU.
Summary of Review,
There are recommended timelines for the review, investigation, and reporting of suspicious activity in the absence of an escalation for
Investigation, and
expedited review.
Reporting Timelines
Page 44 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 45]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Escalation for In certain cases, an alert or case may need to be dispositioned and an STR or SAR filed more rapidly than usual processes allow. In such
Expedited Review cases, the alert will be dispositioned and the STR or SAR filed within 24 hours.
Confidentiality
Confidentiality and When reporting suspicious activity or transactions to the FIU, LFIs are obliged to maintain confidentiality regarding both the information
and Prohibition
Prohibition against being reported and specific to the act of reporting itself, and to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the information and data reported
against
“Tipping Off” are protected from access by any unauthorized person.
“Tipping Off”
Requirements for
If the FIU reaches out to an LFI for additional information pertaining to an STR or SAR, details should be provided in a way that is precise
Corresponding with the
and outlined as per the request. LFIs should maintain clarity on the presented information and provide it in the expected format.
FIU
Following the filing of an STR or SAR filing, LFIs are obliged to follow the instructions, if any, of the FIU in relation to both the specific
transaction and to the business relationship in general. LFIs may decide to retain a customer relationship, exit the relationship, or restrict
Handling of Post STR or SAR
an account, among others. Any actions taken by an LFI following the filing of an STR or SAR is a decision based on the LFI’s internal
Transactions Process
policies and procedures, including its risk appetite, although LFIs should consider the risk of tipping off a customer when implementing
and Business
such restrictive measures.
Relationships
after Filing Governance and
LFIs should have mechanisms to inform the Board of Directors (or a committee of the Board) and senior management on the status of its
STRs Reporting to Senior
AML/CFT program, including reporting on the number and types of STRs or SARs.
Management
LFIs are required to retain all records and documents pertaining to STRs or SARs and the results of all analysis or investigations
Record Retention performed for a period of no less than five (5) years from the date of completion of the transaction or termination of the business
relationship.
Annex 1: Indicative
Examples of Examples of insufficient STR or SAR narratives are provided with an explanation on why these STR or SAR narratives are not sufficient
Insufficient STR or and comprehensive.
SAR Narratives
Annex 2. Red Flag
The FIU published typologies and indicators of suspicious activity that an LFI should consider with a view to update policies, procedures,
Indicators in the
detection scenarios, and red flag indicators for identifying potentially suspicious activity.
Context of the UAE
Annex 3. Red Flag
Annexes The UAE Insurance Authority issued a list of red flag indicators that an LFI should consider with a view to update policies, procedures,
Indicators for the UAE
detection scenarios, and red flag indicators for identifying potentially suspicious activity.
Insurance Sector
Annex 4. Overarching
Rules and Principles The goAML XML Submission Guide provides additional detail on the rules that an LFI should consider when submitting an STR, SAR, or
for the goAML other report type in the goAML system.
System
Annex 5 Synopsis of the Guidance
Page 45 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 46]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Page 46 of 46