
managed and closely monitored.
Typically, two distinct components of market risk are recognised:
99

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 99]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. General Market Risk
General market risk refers to changes in market prices resulting from general market
behavior.
For example, in the case of an equity position, general market risk can arise from a change in a
stock market index. In the case of a fixed income instrument, general market risk is driven by a
change in the yield curve.
The capital charge for general market risk is designed to capture the risk of loss arising from
adverse changes in market interest rates.
There are two steps for calculating the general market risk capital charge:
Step 1: Map each interest rate position to a time band
Interest rate positions have different price sensitivities to interest rate shifts depending on their
residual maturity. Interest rate shifts are changes in the yield curve. Each interest rate position is
mapped to a time band.
There are two methods for mapping interest rate positions:
a) Maturity method
This Method maps each position to a maturity ladder based on the residual maturity of each
position.
Fixed weightings are used to adjust the positions for sensitivity to the changes in interest rates as
per the relevant table under the standard.
Time Bands for theMaturity Method
 Fixed income instruments with low coupons have higher sensitivity to changes in the yield
curve than fixed income instruments with high coupons, all other things being equal.
 Fixed income instruments with long maturities have higher sensitivity to changes in the
yield curve than fixed income instruments with short maturities, all other things being
equal.
This is why the maturity method uses a finer grid of time bands for low coupon instruments (less
than 3%) with long maturities.
Fixed and Floating Rate Instruments
Fixed rate instruments are mapped according to the residual term to maturity. Floating
rate instruments are allocated according to the residual term to the next repricing date.
b) Duration method
This method maps each position according to its duration to a duration ladder. Duration is
a measure of the average maturity of a debt instrument’s cash flows from both coupons and
principal repayment. It is expressed in years and allows debt instruments with different coupons
and maturities to be compared. The duration method allows banks the necessary capability to
calculate price sensitivity based on an instruments’ duration (with the supervisory consent).
Step 2: Calculate the capital charge
100

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 100]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The capital charge is the sum of four components calculated from amounts in each time band:
 A charge on the net short or long position in the whole trading book:
 A vertical disallowance charge:
It is a charge, which is levied on the matched position in each time band. This charges accounts
for basis risk and gap risk, which can arise because each time band includes different instruments
with different maturities. Gap risk, or interest mismatch risk, is the risk of losses due to interest
rate changes that arise when the periods over which assets and liabilities are priced, differs. This
charge is levied on the matched positionin each time band at:
 10% if the bank uses the maturity method
 5% of the bank uses the duration method
The matched position is the smaller absolute value of the long and short positions. For example:
if you have a long position of 1,200 and a short position of 700, the matched position is 700 (the
net open position is long 500).
 A horizontal disallowance charge:
It is a charge against correlation among the different time bands. It is allowed for correlation to
offset positions across different time bands.
There are three rounds of horizontal disallowance:
 Round 1 levies a charge on the matched position in each zone. The charge is:
o 40% for zone 1
o 30% for zone 2 and zone 3
 Round 2 levies a charge of 40% on the matched positions between adjacent zones. The
adjacent zones are:
o Zone 1 and zone 2
o Zone 2 and zone 3
 Round 3 levies a charge of 100% on the matched position between zone 1 and zone 3.
 Where applicable, a net charge for positions in options.
2. Specific Risk
Specific risk refers to changes in market prices specific to an instrument owing to factors
related to the issuer of that instrument.
Specific risk does not affect foreign exchange- and commodities-related instruments. This
is because changes in FX rates and commodities prices are dependent on general market
movements.
101

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 101 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The charge for specific risk protects against price movements in a security owing to factors
related to the individual issuer, that is, price moves that are not initiated by the general market.
a) Offsetting
When specific risk is measured, offsetting between positions is restricted.
 Offsetting is only permitted for matched positions in an identical issue.
 Offsetting is not allowed between different issues, even if the issuer is the same. This is
because differences in coupon rates, liquidity, call features, and so on, mean that prices
may diverge in the short run.
b) Specific Risk – Capital Charge
Under the standardised approach, market risk exposures are categorised according to
external credit assessments (ratings) and based on those assessments a capital charge is
assigned. This broad methodology for calculating the specific risk capital charge was not changed
by Basel 2.5.
The capital charges assigned to those external credit assessments are similar to the credit
risk charges under the standardised approach to credit risk.
Categorisation of Securities
Consistent with other sections, a lower specific risk charge can be applied to government
paper denominated in the domestic currency and funded by the bank in the same currency. The
national discretion is limited to GCC Sovereigns. This use of national discretion aligns the Market
Risk Standards with the similar treatment under the credit risk standards. The Market Risk
Standard is also aligned to the Credit Risk Standard when it comes to the transition period
permitted for USD funded and denominated exposures of the individual Emirates.
Qualifying includes securities issued by public sector entities and multilateral development
banks, plus other securities that are rated with investment grades by two rating agencies. Unrated
securities can also be included, subject to supervisory approval (such as securities deemed to be
of comparable investment quality).
Other securities comprise of securities that do not meet the definition of government or the
definition of qualifying securities. This category receives the same risk charge as non-investment
grade borrowers under the standardised approach to credit risk. However, it is recognised that for
some high yielding debt instruments, an 8% specific risk charge may underestimate the specific
risk.
Calculating the Capital Requirement for Market and Credit Risk
The standards contain different processes for calculating the capital requirement for
market and credit risk. For credit risk, assets are first risk weighted (by multiplying them by a risk
weight) and then a capital requirement is applied. In contrast, for market risk, exposures are
simply multiplied by a specific risk capital charge. For an exposure with a given external credit
assessment (rating), the specific risk capital charge is the same as the capital requirement
calculated under the standardised approach for credit risk.
102