[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 41]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Annex 3. Red Flag Indicators for the UAE Insurance Sector
The UAE Insurance Authority has issued the following list of red flag indicators when handling life and
general insurance products. The indicators, as well as any future ones the UAE Insurance Authority may
determine, should be incorporated into an LFI’s AML/CFT program with a view to update policies,
procedures, detection scenarios, and red flag indicators for identifying potentially suspicious activity related
to life and general insurance products.
1. The purchase of an insurance product does not reflect a customer’s known needs (e.g., purpose
of the account).
2. The early surrender of an insurance product is taken at a cost to the customer.
3. The surrender of an insurance product is initiated with the refund directed to a third party.
4. The customer exhibits no concern for the investment performance of a purchased insurance
product and instead exhibits significant concern for its early surrender terms.
5. The customer purchases insurance products using unusual payment methods, such as cash or
cash equivalents, or with monetary instruments in structured amounts.
6. The customer demonstrates reluctance to provide identifying information when purchasing an
insurance product.
7. The customer borrows the maximum amount available from their insurance product shortly after
purchase.
8. The customer used to purchase low-premium insurance and pay premiums by making regular
payments but suddenly purchases insurance that requires a large lump-sum premium payment, for
which no reasonable explanations are provided.
9. The customer purchases an insurance product without concern for the coverage or benefits, or the
customer only cares about the procedures for the policy loan, cancellation of insurance policy, or
changing beneficiary when purchasing an insurance policy that has a high cash value or requires
a high lump-sum premium payment.
10. The customer usually pays a premium by making regular payments but suddenly requests to
purchase a large-sum policy by paying off premium all at once.
11. The customer purchases insurance products with high cash value successively over a short period
of time, and the insurance products purchased do not appear to be commensurate with the
customer’s status and income or are unrelated to the nature of the customer’s business.
12. The customer pays premiums in cash and in several payments marginally below the threshold for
declaration but cannot reasonably explain the source of funds. In addition, the transactions do not
appear to be commensurate with the customer’s status and income or are unrelated to the nature
of the customer’s business.
13. The customer, after making a large premium payment for a policy purchased, applies for a large
policy loan or cancels the policy in a short period of time, for which no reasonable explanations are
provided.
14. The customer is a policyholder of several motor vehicles which is inconsistent with their profile.
15. The theft of a motor vehicle is not reported by the customer/policyholder.
16. The customer attempts to insure a motor vehicle that was reported as stolen or as a total loss.
Page 41 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 42]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Annex 4. Overarching Rules and Principles for the goAML
System
The FIU published the goAML XML Submission Guide (please see Section 3.4) with additional detail on
the rules that an LFI should consider when submitting an STR, SAR, or other report type in the goAML
system:
 All LFIs transactions should be reported as bi-party transactions on the goAML system.
 Reporting entities should submit only suspicious transactions in a report. Any additional
transactions can be submitted via an AIFT (upon request only).
 For AIFT submissions where the number of transactions exceed 10,000, reporting entities are
advised to split them into more than one AIFT; however, the AIFT should use the same “Internal
Reference Number”.
 A deposit is composed of a bi-party transaction occurring from a person who may be a conductor
to an account.
 A withdrawal is composed of a bi-party transaction occurring from an account to a person.
 A remittance is composed of a bi-party transaction occurring from one person/account/entity to
another.
 A wire transfer is composed of a bi-party transaction occurring from an account to another account.
 In case a LFI is acting as a correspondent bank within a reported transaction, then the transaction
is occurring from one account to another, in which both accounts should be classified as ‘Not My
Client’ by the LFI/Compliance Officer/MLRO.
 In the case of Exchange Houses, where a currency exchange transaction is being reported, it
should be reported as a bi-party transaction, where the “from” and “to” parties are the same Person.
 The conductor field is mandatory when the transaction is conducted from an entity.
 If the date of birth for a subject (person) is unknown, then the user may enter the 1st of January
1900 in the ‘Birth Date’ field.
 In case the expiration date of a registered ID is unknown, then the user may enter the 31st of
December 2100 in the ‘Expiry Date’ field.
 When reporting a transaction that involves an account, it is imperative that the LFI also provide
details for the person or entity associated with the said account.
Page 42 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 43]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Annex 5. Synopsis of the Guidance
The purpose of the Guidance is to assist the understanding and effective performance by the United Arab Emirates Central Bank’s (CBUAE)
Purpose
licensed financial institutions (LFIs) of their statutory obligations under the legal and regulatory framework in force in the UAE.
This guidance applies to all natural and legal persons, which are licensed and/or supervised by CBUAE, in the following categories: •National
Applicability banks, branches of foreign banks, exchange houses, finance companies, payment service providers, registered hawala providers and other LFIs;
and •Insurance companies, agencies, and brokers.
Introduction The legal basis of STR reporting is based on the (i) Federal Decree-Law No. (20) of 2018 on Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Combatting the
Financing of Terrorism (CFT) and Financing Illegal Organisations and Federal Decree law No. (26) of 2021 To amend certain provisions of
Federal Decree-law No. (20) of 2018, on anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism and financing of illegal organisations; (ii)
Cabinet Decision No. (10) of 2019 Concerning the Implementing Regulation for Decree-Law No. (20) of 2018 on AML and CFT and Financing of
Legal Basis
Illegal Organisations; and (iii) Cabinet Decision No. (74) of 2020 Regarding Terrorism Lists Regulation and Implementation of UN Security Council
Resolutions on the Suppression and Combating of Terrorism, Terrorist Financing, Countering the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction
and its Financing and Relevant Resolution. The legal basis addresses (i) the consequences for failure to disclose suspicious activity, (ii) protection
for individuals disclosing suspicious activity, and (iii) the meaning of suspicious transactions.
The first line of defense plays a critical role in the management of customer and third-party risk and the timely escalation of potentially suspicious
Role of the First Line of activity. The first line of defense is well-placed to identify suspicious transactions and assess that information once deemed reasonable—collected
Defense through interactions with a customer—now appears suspicious. Employees within the first line of defense include relationship managers, business
executives, and back-office operations functions.
The second line of defense (e.g., compliance employees) provides policy, advice, guidance, assurance, oversight, and challenge to the first line of
Role of the Second Line defense. While employees in Financial Crime Operations Units (possibly in the first line of defense) can investigate suspicious transactions and
of Defense document the resultant investigation, the ultimate filing of the STR or SAR should be made by the Compliance Officer or the money laundering
reporting officer (MLRO) (in the second line of defense). The second line of defense is charged with overseeing the investigations programme.
Role of the Third Line of The third line of defense identifies gaps, deficiencies, and weaknesses in operational controls owned or overseen by an LFI’s business,
Identification of Defense operations, and compliance functions.
Suspicious
The purpose of transaction monitoring is the ongoing, retrospective monitoring of customers’ and prospective customers’ transactions or activity to
Transactions
Purpose of Transaction identify activity anomalous from normal behavior. This may, on further investigation, generate knowledge or reasonable suspicion of financial