
CRA General qualitative information about credit risk Flexible Annual
CR1 Credit quality of assets Fixed Semi-annual
CR2 Changes in the stock of defaulted loans and debt securities Fixed Semi-annual
CRB Additional disclosure related to credit quality of assets Flexible Annual
CRC Qualitative information on the mitigation of credit risk Flexible Annual
CR3 Credit risk mitigation techniques – overview Fixed Semi-annual
Qualitative disclosures on banks' use of external credit ratings
Credit risk CRD under the standardised approach for credit risk Flexible Annual
Standardised approach - credit risk exposure and CRM
CR4 effects Fixed Semi-annual
Standardised approach - exposures by asset classes and
CR5 risk weights Fixed Semi-annual
CCRA Qualitative disclosure related to CCR Flexible Annual
CCR1 Analysis of CCR by approach Fixed Semi-annual
CCR2 Credit valuation adjustment capital charge Fixed Semi-annual
Standardised approach - CCR exposures by regulatory portfolio
CCR3 and risk weights Fixed Semi-annual
Counterparty credit risk
(CCR)
CCR5 Composition of collateral for CCR exposure Flexible Semi-annual
CCR6 Credit derivatives exposures Flexible Semi-annual
CCR8 Exposures to central counterparties Fixed Semi-annual
SECA Qualitative disclosures related to securitisation exposures Flexible Annual
SEC1 Securitisation exposures in the banking book Flexible Semi-annual
SEC2 Securitisation exposures in the trading book Flexible Semi-annual
Securitisation Securitisation exposures in the banking book and associated
regulatory capital requirements - bank acting as originator or as
SEC3 sponsor Fixed Semi-annual
188

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 9]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Securitisation exposures in the trading book and associated
SEC4 capital requirements - bank acting as investor Fixed Semi-annual
General qualitative disclosure requirements related to market
MRA risk Flexible Annual
Market risk MR1 Market risk under the standardised approach Fixed Semi-annual
IRRBBA IRRBB risk management objectives and policies Flexible Annual
Interest rate risk in the IRRBB1 Quantitative information on IRRBB Fixed Annual
banking book (IRRBB) OR1 Qualitative disclosures on operational risk Flexible Annual
Operational risk REMA Remuneration policy Flexible Annual
REM1 Remuneration awarded during the financial year Flexible Annual
REM2 Special payments Flexible Annual
Remuneration Policy
REM3 Deferred remuneration Flexible Annual
189

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 10]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: One or more senior officers of a bank, ideally at boardlevel or equivalent,
should attest in writing that Pillar 3 disclosures have been prepared in accordance
with the board-agreed internal control processes. For banks of foreign branches, is
Country Manager or CFO at Head office attestation sufficient?
For local banks and large foreign banks, Board member attestation will be expected. For
smaller foreign bank branches, Country Manager/GM will be sufficient
Question 2: There are requirements on the Pillar III disclosure that is dependent on
the BASEL returns (BRF 95), in relation to this, the submission that mentions 6 weeks
after the end of the relevant quarter starts from the BASEL quarter reporting deadline
or actual quarter end?
Pillar 3 disclosure submission will be 6 weeks after the quarter end date. For example,
December quarter submission will be 6 weeks from December 31st and not 6 weeks from
January 31st. Since the BRF95 should mandatorily be submitted by banks within 4 weeks
from quarter end, the bank still has additional 2 weeks to complete the Pillar 3 disclosures
based on BRF95.
Question 3: Pillar 3 applies to all banks in the UAE at the top consolidated level for
local banks... Please clarify in case of subsidiary of a bank, whether revised pillar 3
disclosures will be required to be prepared at consolidated Group level or stand-alone
level?
Bank subsidiaries will be consolidated at stand-alone subsidiary level and the group bank
will be consolidated at the stand-alone of the group bank only without the bank’s subsidiary
data.
Question 4: Pillar 3 disclosures can be presented in a separate report; however, Can
it be signposted to the audited financial statements?
Signposting is allowed if the bank chooses to use the same template in their audited financial
statements but a separate reporting template needs to be prepared as per Pillar 3 templates
which is mandatory and cannot be omitted from the Pillar 3 tables.
Question 5: If any section/ table of Template is not applicable to the Bank (i.e. DSIBs,
Securitisation), shall the Bank exclude this section/ table completely irrespective of
type of table.
Yes, banks can exclude the tables/templates not pertaining to the bank, for example DSIB
and Securitisation
Question 6: Banks should also have a formal board-approved disclosure policy for
Pillar 3 information that sets out the internal controls and procedures for disclosure
of such information. Should this formal Disclosure policy still be submitted to Central
Bank along with ICAAP or it shall only be published / disclosed as mentioned?
The formal disclosure policy should not be submitted but should be available on request by
Central Bank of UAE.
Question 7: Will it be sufficient to publish Basel 3 disclosures on its investor relations
page on the bank’s website without any physical printouts?
Banks should publish their Pillar 3 report in a stand-alone document on the bank’s UAE-
specific website. This can be anywhere on the website but it needs to be clearly visible and
easily available for all stakeholders. Banks which do not have a UAE-Specific website should
create a website specific to UAE so that all stakeholders can have access to the Pillar 3
disclosures of the bank.
Question 8: For REM1 template, is Central Bank expecting the Bank to report overseas
earnings or only the locally paid compensation? Are deferrals awarded in the current
190

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 11 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
year only to be reported? If an employee has a deferral which has a tranche of a prior
year paid out after they have left the Branch, is it expected that this would be reported
or not? If a prior year tranches awarded is reported should this be reported if the
individual is no longer an employee of the Branch?
All contract earnings of all employees need to be reported even if the employee is earning
compensation in UAE and outside UAE. The full contractual award needs to be mentioned
and not only the physical payout
Question 9: Is the End of Service Benefit (EOSB) i.e. severance payment for a normal
leaver to be reported depending upon the definition of “other material risk taker” OR
are banks also required to report any additional payment such as a redundancy type
payment? Should a transfer of Senior Management personnel or Other Material Risk-
takers to other branch of the Bank be considered as severance for reporting purpose?
All payments regardless of the type of payment based on the contract needs to be reported
Question 10: For branches of foreign banks where the Head Office reports to the home
regulator, there are pre-fixed formats prepared and submitted at a frequency as
stipulated by home regulator. Can the branch of foreign banks provide such reports
in UAE which are submitted to the home regulator as a part of UAE Pillar 3
Disclosures?
Reports sent between Head Office and UAE needs to be separated and only the Pillar 3
disclosures as per this Guidance needs to be reported for UAE branches in the mandatory
formats published here.
Question 11: What does “Fully loaded” ECL accounting model mean and what is the
difference between total capital and fully loaded capital?
"Fully Loaded" means bank’s regulatory capital compared with a situation where the
transitional arrangement had not been applied
Question 12: For branches of foreign banks, would Central Bank allow for a transition
period if the threshold for partial disclosure is reached? (i.e. if RWA exceed AED 5
billion)
Transition will be granted on a case by case basis
Question 13: Currently CCyB buffer is 0% in UAE. In this case, what do banks need to
report in CCyB template?
Currently CCyB is not applicable in UAE but if banks in UAE have branches in other countries
this needs to be reported if CCyB is being reported as per that foreign country’s regulations.
Banks, hence, need to calculate and fill the CCyB1 as explained in the Capital Supply
standards.
Question 14: In Sheet CR5, for "Unrated" Category, should we include the Post CRM
and CCF amounts in their respective Risk Weight categories or should we club it
under "Others"?
Yes, it can be placed in “Others” along with any other ratings.
Question 15: In Sheet OV1, is the minimum requirements simply 10.5% of the RWA.
Pillar 1 capital requirements at the reporting date will normally be RWA*10.5% but may differ
if a floor is applicable or adjustments (such as scaling factors).
Question 16: CCR8 requires Bank to report Exposures to Non QCCPs (excluding initial
margin and default fund contribution) arising of (i) OTC derivatives, (ii) Exchange-
traded derivatives, (iii) Securities financing transactions & (iv) Netting sets where
cross-product netting has been approved. Does this mean the Exposures computed
under SA-CCR which are eligible under Netting Jurisdiction to be disclosed under
(iv)?
Currently, UAE has no netting jurisdiction but such exposures reported will be taken into
191