[Document: PI.pdf, Page 25 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
vii. Does not operate overseas.
In the case of a UAE sovereign guarantee given to a non-commercial PSE, with the Central
Bank approval, the guarantee may be treated as eligible credit risk mitigation (CRM) to reduce
the exposure provided the bank ensures compliance with the entire minimum regulatory
requirements and operational requirements stated in the credit risk standard.
Government Related Entities (GRE)
These are commercial undertakings that are fully owned or more than 50% in ownership
by Federal governments, or by Emirates governments. As these entities function as a corporate
in the competitive markets even though the government is the major shareholder, Central Bank
requires such exposures to be classified under GRE and get the same treatment of claims on
corporate with the appropriate risk weights based on the credit rating of the entity.
All banks must comply with the latest version of the GRE list for classification and risk
weighting of entities. Banks that have information that would lead to the addition (or removal) of
an entity to (or from) the GRE list must submit such information to the Central Bank. All banks
must comply with the GRE list unless any addition or removal of entities is reflected in the GRE
list.
Banks Internal audit/compliance department should perform regular reviews to ensure
the PSE and GRE classification complies with the Central Bank GRE list.
C. Claims on multilateral development banks (MDBs)
Exposures to MDBs shall in general be treated similar to claim on banks, but without using
the preferential treatment for short term claims. However, highly rated MDBs, which meet certain
criteria specified below, are eligible for a preferential 0% risk weight.
i. Very high quality long-term issuer ratings, i.e. a majority of an MDB's external
assessments must be AAA;
ii. Shareholder structure is comprised of a significant proportion of sovereigns with long-
term issuer credit assessments of AA- or better, or the majority of the MDB's fund-
raising is in the form of paid-in equity/capital and there is little or no leverage;
iii. Strong shareholder support demonstrated by the amount of paid-in capital contributed
by the shareholders; the amount of further capital the MDBs have the right to call, if
required, to repay their liabilities; and continued capital contributions and new pledges
from sovereign shareholders;
iv. Adequate level of capital and liquidity (a case-by-case approach is necessary in order
to assess whether each MDB's capital and liquidity are adequate), and
v. Strict statutory lending requirements and conservative financial policies, which would
include among other conditions a structured approval process, internal
creditworthiness and risk concentration limits (per country, sector, and individual
exposure and credit category), large exposures approval by the board or a committee
of the board, fixed repayment schedules, effective monitoring of use of proceeds,
status review process, and rigorous assessment of risk and provisioning to loan loss
reserve.
26

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 26]
CBUAE Classification: Public
MDBs currently eligible for 0% risk weight are the World Bank Group comprised of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation,
the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Development Association,
the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European
Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank,
the International Finance Facility for Immunisation and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
The list of MDBs is by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and can be found
on the website www.bis.org. All banks are required to refer to and comply with the BCBS list.
Whilst the BCBS evaluates the eligibility of the entities on a case-by-case basis, the Central Bank
has no role in the assessment and decision of entities being eligible for 0% risk weight.
D. Claims on Banks
The types of claims that fall under this asset class are claims not limited to those due from
banks, nostro accounts, certificates of deposit (CD) issued by banks, and repurchase agreements
(repos). A risk weight of 50% (long term) and 20% (short term) is applied to claims on unrated
banks. However, this treatment is subject to the provision that no claim on an unrated bank may
receive a risk weight lower than that applied to claims on its sovereign of incorporation.
Exposure to intra-group of the bank have to be risk weighted according to the external
rating of the counterparty entity (e.g. exposures to the head office shall receive the risk weight
according to the rating of the head office).
E. Claims on Securities Firms
In addition to providing loans to other banks in the interbank market, banks provide loans to
securities firms. The securities firms use these loans to fund the purchase of securities. Exposures
to these securities firms shall be treated as claims on banks if these firms are subject to prudential
standards and a level of supervision that is equivalent to those applicable to banks. Such
supervision must include at least both capital and liquidity requirements. Exposures to all other
securities firms that are not treated as claims on banks will be treated as exposures to corporates.
F. Claims on Corporates
For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, exposures to corporates include, but
are not limited to, exposures (loans, bonds, receivables, etc.) to incorporated entities,
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, trusts, funds and other entities with similar
characteristics, except those which qualify for one of the other exposure classes. The corporate
exposure class does not include exposures to individuals.
Claims on corporates may be risk- weighted based on the entity’s external credit rating
assessment. The Central Bank may increase the standard risk weight for unrated claims where it
judges that a higher risk weight is warranted by the overall default experience. As part of the
supervisory review process, the Central Bank may also consider whether the credit quality of
corporate claims held by banks warrants a risk weight higher than 100%.
G. Claims included in the Regulatory Retail Portfolios
To qualify for a 75% risk weight in the regulatory retail portfolio, claims must meet the four
27

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 27]
CBUAE Classification: Public
criteria stated in the Credit Risk Standard (orientation criterion, product criterion, granularity
criterion and value criterion). All other retail claims should be risk weighted at 100%. For
granularity criterion and value criterion, the aggregated exposure means gross amount (i.e. not
taking any credit risk mitigation into account) of all forms of retail exposures, excluding residential
real estate exposures. In case of off-balance sheet items, the gross amount will be calculated
after applying credit conversion factors. In addition, “to one counterparty” means one or several
entities that may be considered as a single beneficiary (e.g. in the case of a small business that
is affiliated to another small business, the limit would apply to the bank’s aggregated exposure on
both businesses).
Claims secured by residential property and past due retail loans are to be excluded from
the overall regulatory retail portfolio for risk weighting purposes. These are addressed separately
in the asset classes for residential property or commercial real estate.
H. Claims Secured by Residential Property
Claims secured by residential property are defined as loans secured by residential
property that is either self-occupied or rented out. The property must be fully mortgaged in favor
of the bank.
The Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is the outstanding loan exposure divided by the value of the
property. The value of the property will be maintained at the value at origination unless the Central
Bank requires banks to revise the property value downward. The value must be adjusted if an
extraordinary, idiosyncratic event occurs resulting in a permanent reduction of the property value.
Such adjustment must be notified to the Central Bank. If the value has been adjusted downwards,
a subsequent upwards adjustment can be made but not to a higher value than the value at
origination.
A 35% risk weighting shall apply to eligible residential claims if the LTV ratio is less than
85% and the exposure is less than AED 10 million. When the loan amount exceeds AED 10 million
and the LTV is below 85%, the loan amount up to AED 10 million will receive 35% risk weight and
the remaining amount above AED 10 million receives 100% risk weight.
A risk weight of 75% may be applied by banks that do not hold information regarding
LTVs for individual exposures
For residential exposures that meet the criteria for regulatory retail claims and have an
LTV greater than 85%, the 75% risk weight must be applied to the whole loan, i.e. the loan should
not be split.
The risk-weights in this asset class may be applied to a limit of four individual properties
made to a single individual customer that are owner- occupied or rented out by a retail borrower.
Any additional exposure to a customer with loans for four individual properties shall be classified
as a claim on a commercial property and risk weighted with 100%.
I. Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate is defined as a loan granted by a bank to a customer specifically
for the purpose of buying or constructing commercial property including residential towers and
mixed use towers.
J. Past Due Loans
Risk weights of past due loans depend on the degree of provision coverage on the claim.
For any past due loan, 100% Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) should be applied for the off-
28

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 28]
CBUAE Classification: Public
balance sheet component to calculate the credit risk-weighted assets. Any exposure that is past
due for more than 90 days should be reported under this asset class, net of specific provisions
(including partial write-offs). This differs from the IFRS 9 classification as the past due asset
includes any loans more than 90 days past due.
K. Higher-risk categories
Higher risk weights may be applied to assets that reflect higher risks. A bank may decide
to apply a risk weight of 150% or higher.
L. Other Assets
Assets in this class include any other form of exposure that does not fit into the specific
exposure classes. The standard risk weight for all other assets will be 100%, with the exception
of the following exposures:
a) 0% risk weight applied to:
i. cash owned and held at the bank or in transit;