
current risk weights of 100% or 150% that apply to equity investments in funds under
previous capital requirements. Should this risk weight be lower?
The risk weight of 1250% is aligned with international capital standards as developed by the Basel
Committee, and is being adopted by the Central Bank under this Standards. Considering the
higher minimum capital requirements in the UAE (10.5% vs 8%), the final risk weight is capped at
952%.
Question 7: What happens when the bank has mandated intermediaries to invest in fixed
income? Would this investment be included or excluded in the calculation of Equity
Investments?
86

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 86]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Banks having mandated Intermediaries have to go through same framework approach. This
means that if the bank has information for these intermediaries, the bank may use the LTA
approach. If the bank does not have information, then it has to use the MBA or FBA approach.
Question 8: The EIF standards allows for partial use of approaches for reporting EIF and
the RWA calculations from each applied approach are summed, and then divided by total
fund assets to compute “Avg RWfund”. Should the leverage of the fund be proportioned
according to use of approach?
No, the leverage ratio is a single number that applies to the entire fund. When a bank uses more
than one approach to determinethe risk weight (that is, LTA, MBA, and/or FBA), the bank should
report the amounts on separate lines in the reporting template.
87

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 87]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IV. Example Calculations
A. Example of calculation of risk-weighted assets using the LTA
Consider a fund that aims to replicate an equity index using a strategy based on forward
contracts. Assume the fund holds short-term forward contracts for this purpose with a notional
amount of 100 that are cleared through a qualifying central counterparty. Further, assume that
the fund’s financial position can be represented by the following T-account balance sheet:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 20 Notes payable 5
Government bonds (AAA) 30
Variation margin receivable
on forward contracts 50 Equity 95
100 100
Finally, assume that the bank’s equity investment in the fund comprises 20% of the shares of the
fund, and therefore is 20% × 95 = 19.
Using the LTA, the fund’s balance sheet exposures of 100 are risk weighted according to the risk
weights that would be applied tothese assets by the bank. For cash, the risk weight is 0%; for the
government bonds, the risk weight is also 0%. The margin receivable is an exposure to a
qualifying CCP, whichhas 2% risk weight. The underlying risk weight for equity exposures (100%)
is applied to the notional amount of the forward contracts.
Assume that the bank is able to determine that the amount of the CCR exposure to the CCP is
10, which then receives the 2% risk weight for exposures to a qualifying CCP. Note that there is
no CVA charge because the forward contracts are cleared through the qualifying CCP.
The total RWA for the fund is:
20×0% + 30×0% + 50×2% + 100×100% + 10×2% = 101.2
Given the total assets of the fund of 100, the average risk-weight for the fund is:
Avg RW
fund
= 101.2/ 100=101.2%
With fund assets of 100 and fund equity of 95, leverage is calculated as the assets-to-equity ratio,
or 100/95≈1.05. Therefore, the risk-weight for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is:
Risk Weight = 101.2% × (100/95) = 106.5%
Applying this risk weight to the bank’s equity investment in the fund of 19, the bank’s RWA on the
position for the purpose of calculating minimum required capital is 106.5% × 19 = 20.24.
B. Example of calculation of risk-weighted assets using the MBA
Consider a fund with current balance-sheet assets of 100, and assume that the bank is
unable to apply the LTA due to a lack of adequate information. Suppose that the fund’s mandate
states that the fund’s investment objective is to replicate an equity index. In addition to being
88

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 88]
CBUAE Classification: Public
permitted to invest in equities directly as assets and to hold cash balances, the mandate allows
the fund to take long positions in equityindex futures up to a maximum notional amount equivalent
to 80% of the fund’s balance sheet. Since this means that with 100 in assets the fund could have
futures with a notional value of 80, the total on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet exposures
of the fund could reach 180.
Suppose that the fund’s mandate also places a restriction on leverage, allowing the fund to issue
debt up to a maximum of 10% of the total value of the fund’s assets. This debt constraint implies
that with 100 in assets, the fund’s maximum financial leverage would be at a mixture of 10 debt
and 90 equity, for a maximum assets-to-equity ratio of 100/90≈1.11.
Finally, assume that the value of the bank’s investment in the fund is 20.
For the computation of RWA, the on-balance-sheet assets are assumed to be invested to the
maximum extent possible in the riskiest type of asset permitted under the mandate. The mandate
allows either cash (which has a zero risk weight) or equities, so the full 100 is assumed to be in
equities, with a 100% risk weight.
Next, the fund is assumed to enter into derivatives contracts to the maximum extent allowable
under its mandate – stated as 80% of total assets – implying a maximum derivatives notional of
80. This amount receives the risk weight associated with the underlying of the derivatives position,
which in this example is 100% for publicly traded equity holdings.
The calculation of RWA must include an amount for the counterparty credit risk associated with
derivatives. If the bank cannot determine the replacement cost associated with the futures
contracts, then the replacement cost must be approximated by the maximum notional amount of
80. If the PFE is similarly indeterminate, an additional 15% of the notional amount must be added
for PFE. Thus, the CCR exposure is 1.4 x (80×1.15) = 129. Assuming the futures contracts clear
through a qualifying CCP, a risk weight of 2% applies to the CCR exposure, and no CVA charge
is assessed for the CCP.
The total RWA for the fund is the sum of the components for on-balance-sheet assets, off-
balance-sheet exposures, and CCR:
100×100% + 80×100% + 129×2% = 182.58
Given the total assets of the fund of 100, the average risk-weight for the fund is:
Avg RW
fund
= 182.58 / 100 = 182.58%
As noted above, the fund’s maximum leverage is approximately 1.11 at an assets-to-equity ratio
of 100/90. Therefore, the risk-weight for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is:
Risk Weight = 182.58% × (100/90) = 202.87%
Applying this risk weight of 202.87% to the bank’s equity investment in the fund of 20, the bank’s
RWA on the position for the purpose of calculating minimum required capital is 202.87% × 20 =
40.57.
89

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 89]
CBUAE Classification: Public
VII. Securitisation
I. Introduction
In December 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) published a
revised framework for calculating bank capital requirements for securitisation exposures, with
further revisions in July 2016. The revised securitisation framework aimed to address a number
of shortcomings in the Basel II securitisation framework and to strengthen the capital standards
for securitisation exposures held in the banking book. The Central Bank’s Standards on Required
Capital for Securitisation Exposures is based closely on the BCBS framework.
A central feature of the revised framework is a hierarchy of approaches to risk-weighted
asset calculations. The BCBS framework includes approaches based on internal credit risk ratings
of banks. These approaches have not been included in the Central Bank’s Standards, as internal
ratings-based approaches are not deemed appropriate for use in capital calculations at this time
by banks in the UAE.
Consequently, the hierarchy of approaches within the Central Bank’s Standards begins
with the revised External Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-ERBA), and below that in the hierarchy
the revised Standardised Approach (SEC-SA). For resecuritisations, the hierarchy excludes the
SEC-ERBA, and instead begins with the SEC-SA. If neither the SEC-ERBA nor the SEC-SA can
be applied for a particular securitisation exposure, a maximum risk weight of 1250% must be used
for the exposure.
Calculations under both the SEC-ERBA and the SEC-SA depend to some degree on a
measure of “tranche thickness.” The thickness of a tranche is determined by the size of the
tranche relative to the entire securitisation transaction. In general, for a given attachment point, a
thinner tranche is riskier than a thicker tranche, and therefore warrants a higher risk weight for
risk-based capital adequacy purposes. While credit rating agencies capture some aspects of the
risk related to tranche thickness in their external ratings, analysis performed by the BCBS
suggested that capital requirements for a given rating of a mezzanine tranche should differ
significantly based on tranche thickness, and this is reflected in the Standards.
Under the SEC-ERBA, risk weights also are adjusted to reflect tranche maturity. The
BCBS incorporated a maturity adjustment to reflect unexpected losses appropriately in the capital
calculations. External ratings used for SEC-ERBA typically reflect expected credit loss rates, and
the BCBS concluded through analysis during the development process that the mapping between
these expected losses and unexpected losses (the quantity that capital is intended to cover)
depends on maturity.
II. Clarifications
1. Securitisation
The Standards defines a securitisation as a contractual structure under which the cash
flow from an underlying pool of exposures is used to service claims with at least two different
stratified risk positions or tranches reflecting different degrees of credit risk. The creation of
90

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 90]
CBUAE Classification: Public
distinct tranches is the key feature of securitisation; similar structures that merely “pass through”
the cash flows to the claims without modification are not considered securitisations.
For securitisation exposures, payments to the investors depend upon the performance of
the specified underlying exposures, as opposed to being derived from an obligation of the entity
originating those exposures. The stratified/tranched structures that characterize securitisations
differ from ordinary senior/subordinated debt instruments in that junior securitisation tranches can
absorb losses without interrupting contractual payments to more senior tranches, whereas
subordination in a senior/subordinated debt structure is a matter of priority of rights to the
proceeds of a liquidation.
In some cases, transactions that have some of the features of securitisations should not
be treated as such for capital purposes. For example, transactions involving cash flows from real
estate (e.g., in the form of rents) may be considered specialized lending exposures. Banks should
consult with Central Bank when there is uncertainty about whether a given transaction should be
considered a securitisation.
2. Senior Securitisation exposures
A securitisation exposure is considered a senior exposure if it is effectively backed or
secured by a first claim on the entire amount of the assets in the underlying securitised pool.
While this generally includes only the most senior position within a securitisation tranche,
in some instances there may be other claims that, in a technical sense, may be more senior in
the waterfall (e.g., a swap claim) but may be disregarded for the purpose of determining which
positions are treated as senior.
If a senior tranche is retranched or partially hedged (i.e., not on a pro rata basis), only the
new senior part would be treated as senior for capital purposes.
In some cases, several senior tranches of different maturities may share pro rata in loss
allocation. In that case, the seniority of these tranches is unaffected – they all are considered to
be senior – since they all benefit from the same level of credit enhancement. (Note that in this
case, the material effects of differing tranche maturities are captured by maturity adjustments to
the risk weights assigned to the securitisation exposures, per the Standards.)
In a traditional securitisation where all tranches above the first-loss piece are rated, the
most highly rated position should be treated as a senior tranche. When there are several tranches
that share the same rating, only the most senior tranche in the cash flow waterfall should be
treated as senior (unless the only difference among them is the effective maturity). In addition,
when the different ratings of several senior tranches only result from a difference in maturity, all
of these tranches should be treated as senior.
In a typical synthetic securitisation, an unrated tranche can be treated as a senior tranche
provided that all of the conditions for inferring a rating from a lower tranche that meets the
definition of a senior tranche are fulfilled.
Usually, a liquidity facility supporting an ABCP program would not be the most senior
position within the program; instead, the commercial paper issued by the program, which benefits
from the liquidity support, typically would be the most senior position. However, when a liquidity
facility that is sized to cover all of the outstanding commercial paper and other senior debt
supported by the pool is structured so that no cash flows from the underlying pool can be
91