[Document: PI.pdf, Page 121]
CBUAE Classification: Public
at 8% for general market risk and 8% for specific risk, giving a summed charge of 16%.
Market value of 100 shares = USD 1,000
First, multiply the market value by the sum of general market risk and specific risk charges.
USD 1,000 x 16% = USD 160
Then, calculate the amount the option is in-the-money.
(USD 11 - USD 10) x 100 = USD 100
The capital charge is the general market risk and specific risk charge less the amount the option
is in-the-money.
USD 160 - USD 100 = USD 60
A similar methodology applies for options whose underlying is a foreign currency, an interest rate
related instrument or a commodity.
Another example for simplified approach
A bank holds 500 shares currently valued at USD 25.50 and holds an equivalent number of put
options with a strike price of USD 26.25 (each option entitles the bank to sell one share).
The capital charge is calculated as follows:
Market value of 500 shares = USD 12,750
USD 12,750 x 16% (that is, 8% specific plus 8% general market risk) = USD 2,040
The amount the option is in-the-money = (USD 26.25 - USD 25.50) x 500 = USD 375.
This gives a capital charge of USD 2,040 - USD 375 = USD 1,665
122

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 122]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IX. Operational Risk
I. Introduction and Scope
This section of the guidance supports the Operational Risk Standard in clarifying the
calculation of the Operational risk capital requirement.
Operational risk has existed since banks have been in business. However, it is only in
recent decades that the management of operational risk (including measurement techniques) has
evolved into a distinct discipline, long after this was the case for both credit risk and market risk.
In this same period, the significance of operational risk in banks became widely
recognised. This development was influenced by numerous high-profile operational risk events
and related losses, along with such factors as banks' greater reliance on technology and
increased use of outsourcing, the growing sophistication of cyber threats, and the pace of change
in the financial services sector.
II. Clarification
Operational risk includes legal and compliance risk but excludes strategic and reputational
risk. The exclusion of strategic and reputational risk is because they relate more to indirect losses,
the definition, measurement and quantification of which would give rise to significant complexities.
The operational risk capital charge represents the amount of capital that a bank should
maintain as a cushion against losses arising from operational risk.
The operational risk capital charge is first calculated using the appropriate approach under
Basel III. It is then converted into a risk-weighted asset equivalent by multiplying the charge by
12.5 and adding the result to the total risk-weighted assets for credit risk.
III. Approaches
The calculation of the operational risk capital charge is covered under the Standards for
Capital Adequacy of banks in the UAE.
The approaches represent a continuum of increasing sophistication and risk sensitivity.
The charge is to be calculated using one of the following two approaches:
a. Basic Indicator Approach (BIA)
The Basic Indicator Approach (BIA) is a simple approach for calculating the capital charge
for operational risk. It can be used by banks that are not internationally active, as well as by banks
that are internationally active but may not yet have risk management systems in place for using
the more advanced approaches for measuring operational risk.
While the approach is available for all banks as a 'point of entry', irrespective of their level
of sophistication, Central Bank expects internationally active banks and banks with significant
operational risk to discontinue indefinitely with the Basic Indicator Approach.
The Basic Indicator Approach Components
The operational risk capital charge under the BIA is based on two components:
123

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 123]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. The exposure indicator, represented by the Gross Income (GI) of a bank as a whole.
2. The fixed factor, alpha (α), set by the Basel Committee.
The formula for calculating the capital charge for operational risk under the BIA is as follows:
𝐾 = [∑(𝐺𝐼 × 𝛼)]⁄𝑛
𝐵𝐼𝐴 1..𝑛
Where:
K
BIA
= The capital charge under the BIA;
GI = Annual gross income, where positive, over the previous three years;
n = Number of the previous three years for which gross income is positive; and
α =15%, relating the industry wide level of required capital to the industry wide level of
the indicator.
1. Gross Income of the Bank
Gross income is a broad indicator that serves as a proxy for the likely exposure of a bank
to operational risk. It is the total of net interest income plus net non-interest income of a bank as
a whole. Net interest income is defined as interest income of a bank (for example, from loans and
advances) minus theinterest expenses (for example, interest paid on deposits). Net non-interest
income is defined as fees and commissions earned minus the non-interest expenses (that is, fees
and commissions paid) and other income.
Gross income used in the calculation of the capital charge for operational risk should be:
- Gross of any provisions, for example, for unpaid interest. This is because such amounts
should have normally formed part of a bank's income but have been set aside for likely
credit losses.
- Gross of operating expenses, including fees paid to outsourcing service providers. This is
because outsourcing of activities does not fully transfer operational risk to the service
provider. Outsourcing is the strategic use of outside resources to perform business
functions that are traditionally managed by internal staff. Outsourcing offers the advantage
of access to specialised and experienced personnel that may not be available internally,
and enables banks to concentrate on their core business and reduce costs.
Only sustainable, renewable and recurrent sources of income are to be used as the basis
for calculatingthe operational risk capital charge. Banks should perform a reconciliation between
the gross income reported on the capital adequacy return and the audited financial statements.
This information should be available to the Central Bank upon request. As such, gross income
should exclude:
- realised profits/losses from the sale of securities classified as 'held to maturity' and 'available
for sale', which typically constitute items of the banking book under certain accounting
standards. The intention is to hold such securities for some time or up to their full term and
not for trading purposes. Their sale does not represent sustainable income from normal
business.
- Held to maturity securities are those that the bank intends to hold indefinitely or until the
security reaches its maturity. Available for sale securities includes securities that are neither
held for trading purposes nor intended to be held till maturity. These are securities that the
bank intends to hold in the short or medium term, but may ultimately sell. Banking book relates
124

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 124]
CBUAE Classification: Public
to positions that are held to maturity with no trading intent associated with them. Most loans
and advances are included in the banking book as they are intended to be held until maturity.
At times, there may also be liquid positions assigned to the banking book if they are intended
to be held over a longer term or to maturity.
- Extraordinary or irregular items as well as income derived from insurance claims. Again,
these items are to be excluded, as they are not sustainable sources of income for a bank.
Banks sometimes outsource certain activities, such as processing and maintaining data
on loan collection services to external service providers. Alternatively, banks may act as service
providers to other banks. This results in the payment or receipt of a fee for the outsourced service.
Basel provides the following guidance for the treatment of outsourcing fees paid or
received, while calculating the gross income for the purpose of calculating the operational risk
capital charge:
- Outsourcing fees paid by a bank to a service provider do not reduce the gross income of
the bank.
- Outsourcing fees received by a bank for providing outsourcing services are included in the
definition of gross income.
2. Alpha
Alpha is a fixed factor, set by the Basel Committee. It serves as a proxy for the industry-
wide relationship between operational risk loss experience of a bank and the aggregate level of
the operational risk exposure as reflected in its gross income.
Treatment of Negative Gross Income
The operational risk capital charge under the BIA is assumed that a bank has positive
gross income for all of the previous three years.However, some banks may have negative gross
income for some year(s), for example, resulting from poor financial performance. Figures for any
year in which annual gross income is negative or zero shall be excluded from both the numerator
and denominator when calculating the gross income average.
On this basis, the figures presented in the 3 years' calculations should reconcile (or be
reconcilable) with the bank’s audited financial statements.
b. Standardised Approach (SA)
The Standardised Approach (SA) represents a refinement along the continuum of
approaches for calculating the operational risk capital charge. While this approach also relies on
fixed factors as a percentage of gross income, it allows banks to use up to eight such factors,
called betas, depending upon their business lines.
The calculation of the operational risk charge under this approach is more risk sensitive
than the BIA.
The Standardised Approach Capital Charge
Under the Standardised Approach (SA), the operational risk capital charge is based on
the operational risk capital charges for individual business lines in a bank. The formula for
calculating the operational risk capital charge under the SA is as follows:
125

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 125]
CBUAE Classification: Public
𝐾 = { ∑ max [∑(𝐺𝐼 × 𝛽 ), 0]}⁄3
𝑇𝑆𝐴 1−8 1−8
𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑠 1−3
Where:
K
TSA
= the capital charge under the Standardised Approach
GI = the annual gross income in a given year, as defined in the Basic Indicator Approach
1-8
(BIA), for each of the eight business lines
β = a fixed percentage, set by the committee, relating the level of required capital to the
1-8
level of the gross income for each of the eight business lines
The Standardised Approach Components
The Standardised Approach identifies two main components to be used in calculating the
operational risk capital charge:
1. Gross Income of Eight Business Lines
Eight business lines are recommended for use by the Basel Committee in calculating the
operational risk charge under the SA. These business lines are considered as being
representative of the various kinds of businesses undertaken by banks. The identified business
lines briefed below are:
1. Corporate finance: banking arrangements and facilities provided to large commercial
enterprises, multinational companies, non-bank financial institutions, government
departments etc.
2. Trading and sales: treasury operations, buying and selling of securities, currencies and
commodities for proprietary and client accounts.
3. Retail banking: financing arrangements for private individuals, retail clients and small
businesses such as personal loans, credit cards, auto loans, etc. as well as other facilities
such as trust and estates and investment advice.
4. Commercial banking: financing arrangements for commercial enterprises, including
project finance, real estate, trade finance, factoring, leasing, guarantees, bills of exchange
etc.
5. Payment and settlement: activities relating to payments and collections, interbank funds
transfer, clearing and settlement.
6. Agency services: acting as issuing and paying agents for corporate clients, providing
custodial services etc.
7. Asset management: managing funds of clients on a pooled, segregated, retail,
institutional, open or closed basis under a mandate.
8. Retail brokerage: broking services provided to customers that are retail investors rather
than institutional investors.
Under the SA, the gross income is calculated for each of the eight business lines. It serves
as a proxy for the likely scale of exposure of that business line of the bank to operational risk.
Since all income has to be allocated to a business line, the sum of the gross income of the eight
business lines should equal the gross income for the bank as a whole
126

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 126]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Just like in the Basic Indicator Approach, gross income for SA comprises net interest
income plus net non-interest income as defined in the Operational Risk section of the Standards