
as claims on commercial properties and the risk weight of the properties shall be 100%.
Question 12: Can the bank apply a preferential RW of 35% for properties under
construction?
No, the preferential risk weight of 35% applies only to completed properties, as under
construction, residential properties incur higher risks than buying completed properties.
Claims Secured by Commercial Real Estate
Question 13: Do loans with a collateral of a completed commercial property, irrespective
of their purpose, fall under Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate?
No, this asset class is for exposures specifically for the purpose of buying/ constructing
commercial property, i.e. real estate loans.
Higher-risk Categories
Question 14: What type of exposure would fall under higher risk categories? What is the
appropriate RW for higher risk categories?
Almost all the exposures that receive 150% risk weight are reported under the respective asset
class. The Central Bank will apply a 150% or higher risk weight, reflecting the higher risks
associated with assets that require separate disclosure. For example, but not limited to, real estate
acquired in settlement of debt and not liquidated within the statutory period shall be reported under
the higher risk asset class with a 150% RW.
Other Assets
Question 15: The Credit Risk Standard states in section 5, that equity investment in
commercial entities that are below the thresholds shall be risk weighted at 150% if the
entity is unlisted. However, if the banking group has full control over the commercial
subsidiary, can a lower risk weight be applied?
A 150% risk weight reflects the additional risk the commercial subsidiary underpins on unlisted
equity (absence of regulatory requirement, illiquidity, etc.) exposures than listed equity exposures.
34

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 34]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Issuer and Issuance Rating
Question 16: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond?
The bank must classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and
assign risk weight based on the rating of the entity.
Question 17: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a bond
with a guarantee by the sovereign specific to the issuance and the bond gets a higher
rating than the entity itself?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign risk weight
based on the rating of the bond.
Question 18: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a bond
with a lower rating than entity?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign risk weight
based on the rating of the bond.
Question 19: What will be the treatment if an unrated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond (unrated), but the bond has the guarantee from sovereign, specific and direct
guarantee?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign the risk
weight based on the bond rating (unrated). The guarantee should be used for credit risk mitigation
by substituting the risk weight of the bond using the claims on sovereign mapping table (e.g. AAA
- 0% risk weight).
Question 20: What will be the treatment if an unrated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond with a guarantee given by the sovereign to the entity (and not the bond)?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign the risk
weight related to the unrated entity. The guarantee should be used for credit risk mitigation by
substituting the risk weight of the bond using the claims on corporate mapping table (e.g. AAA -
20% risk weight).
Off Balance-sheet Items
Question 22: The Credit Risk Standards states that, “Any commitments that are
unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank without prior notice, or that effectively
provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s creditworthiness
must be converted into credit exposure equivalents using CCF of 0%”. For using CCF of
0%, please provide explanation on being cancellable at any time without prior notice.
Majority of the unconditionally cancellable commitments are subject to certain contractual
conditions, which in practice may not render them as unconditionally cancelled and thereby do
not qualify them for 0% CCF, implying that all the off-balancesheet items bear a risk to the bank.
Bank shall conduct a formal review of the commitments at regular intervals to ensure that
commitments can be cancelled from a legal and practical perspective.
Credit Risk Mitigation
Question 23: Is an approval required from the Central Bank to switch between the simple
and comprehensive approach for Credit Risk Mitigation techniques? For a bank that
35

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 35]
CBUAE Classification: Public
applies the comprehensive approach, is an approval required to go back to the simple
approach?
A bank that intends to apply the comprehensive approach requires prior approval from the Central
Bank. Once approved and if the bank wishes to go back to simple approach, a bank requiresthe
Central Bank's approval again to go to the simple approach.
V. Appendix: Computation of Exposures with Credit Risk Mitigation Effects
Bank A repos out cash of AED 1000 to a corporate with an external rating of AA. The corporate
provides collateral in the form of debt securities issued by a bank with an external rating of
AA. The debt securities have a remaining maturity of 7 years and a market value of AED 990.
Minimum holding period for various products
Transaction type Minimum holding period Condition
Repo-style transaction 5 Business days Daily remargining
Other capital market transactions 10 Business days Daily remargining
Secured lending 20 Business days Daily revaluation
Thehaircut for the transaction with other than 10 business days minimum holding
period, as indicated above, will have to be adjusted by scaling up or down the haircut for
10 business days as per the formula given below:
NR+(TM−1)
H=HM√
𝑇M
Variables Details of the Variables Supervisory haircuts Scaling Adjusted haircuts
factor
He Haircut appropriate to the Exposure in the form of cash, 0 Not applicable
underlying exposure supervisory haircut 0%
Hc Haircut appropriate to the Debt securities issued by a 0.71 Supervisory haircut
Collateral bank (8%)* Scaling factor
supervisory haircut 8% (0.71 )= 6%
Hfx Haircut appropriate for No Currency Mismatch 0 Not applicable
Currency Mismatch
Theexposure amount after risk mitigation is calculated as follows:
Variables E*= max {0, [E x (1 + He) – C x (1 – Hc – Hfx)]} Value
E* Net credit exposure (i.e. exposure value after CRM) 69.4
E Principal Amount, which is net of specific provisions, if any 1000
For off-balance sheet, it is the credit equivalent amount
He Haircut appropriate to the underlying exposure (cash) 0
C Value of the collateral before CRM 990
Hc Haircut appropriate to the Collateral 6%
Hfx Haircut appropriate for Currency Mismatch 0
Risk weighted asset for the exposure = (69.40 * 50% (AA)) = 34.70
(Exposure * Risk weight)
36

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 36 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IV. Counterparty Credit Risk
I. Introduction
1. In March 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) published a new
approach for measurement of counterparty credit risk exposure associated with OTC derivatives,
exchange-traded derivatives, and long settlement transactions, the standardised approach for
CCR (SA-CCR). The approach in the Central Bank’s Standards for CCR closely follows the SA-
CCR as developed by theBCBS in all material areas of substance.
2. The BCBS developed the SA-CCR to replace the two previous non-internal model
methods, the Current Exposure Method (CEM) and the Standardized Method (SM). The SA-CCR
was designed to be more risk sensitive than CEM and SM. It accurately recognizes the effects of
collateralization and recognizes a benefit from over-collateralization. It also provides incentives
for centralized clearing of derivative transactions.
3. As is the case with the CEM, under the SA-CCR the exposure at default (EAD) is
calculated as the sum of two components: (i) replacement cost (RC), which reflects the current
value of the exposure adjusted for the effects of net collateral including thresholds, minimum
transfer amounts, and independent amounts; and (ii) potential future exposure (PFE), which
reflects the potential increase in exposure until the closure or replacement of the transactions.
The PFE portion consists of a multiplier that accounts for over-collateralization, and an aggregate
add-on derived from the summation of add-ons for each asset class (interest rate, foreign
exchange, credit, equity, and commodity), which in turn are calculated at the hedging set level.
II. Clarifications
A. Replacement Cost
4. Note that in mathematical terms, replacement cost for un-margined transactions is
calculated as:
𝑅𝐶 = max(𝑉 − 𝐶; 0)
where RC is replacement cost, V is the total current market value of all derivative contracts in the
netting set combined, and C is the net value of collateral for the netting set, after application of
relevant haircuts. (In the CCR Standards, the quantity V-C is referred to as the Net Current Value,
or NCV.)
5. For margined transactions, the calculation becomes:
𝑅𝐶 = max(𝑉 − 𝐶; 𝑇𝐻 + 𝑀𝑇𝐴 − 𝑁𝐼𝐶𝐴; 0)
where TH is the threshold level of variation that would require a transfer of collateral, MTA is the
minimum transfer amount of the collateral, and NICA is the Net Independent Collateral Amount
equal to the difference between the value of any independent collateral posted by a counterparty
and any independent collateral posted by the bank for that counterparty, excluding any collateral
that the bank has posted to a segregated, bankruptcy remote account.
37