
example through policies commonly described as “quantitative easing.” While the Central
Bank has no plan to implement such policies, the inclusion of this flexibility in the Standards
ensures that, in the event that such policies were to be implemented, the minimum leverage
requirement could be adjusted in a manner that allows it to continue to serve its appropriate
prudential role. Per the requirements of the BCBS framework, the Central Bank would also
increase the calibration of the minimum leverage ratio requirement commensurately to offset
the impact of exempting central bank reserves, since actual bank leverage ratios would be
expected to increase due to the exclusion of these exposures.
b. Scope of Consolidation
The framework applies on a consolidated basis, following the same scope of
regulatory consolidation used in the risk-based capital requirements (see Regulations re
Capital Adequacy). For example, if proportional consolidation is applied for regulatory
consolidation under the risk-based framework, the same criteria shall be applied for leverage
ratio purposes.
Where a banking, financial, insurance or commercial entity is outside the scope of
regulatory consolidation, only the investment in the capital of such entities (that is, only the
carrying value of the investment, as opposed to the underlying assets and other exposures
of the investee) is included in the exposure measure. However, any such investments that
are deducted from Tier 1 capital may be excluded from the exposure measure.
195

[Document: document.pdf, Page 198]
CBUAE Classification: Public
c. Exposure Measure
The exposure measure includes both on-balance-sheet exposures and off-balance-
sheet (OBS) items. On-balance-sheet exposures are generally included at their accounting
value, although exposures arising from derivatives transactions and securities financing
transactions (SFTs) are subject to separate treatment.
Except where a different treatment is specified, no offset is allowed for physical or
financial collateral held, guarantees in favour of the bank or other credit risk mitigation
techniques.
Balance sheet assets that are deducted from Tier 1 capital may also be deducted
from the exposure measure. For example:
 Where a banking, financial or insurance entity is not included in the regulatory scope
of consolidation, the amount of any investment in the capital of that entity that is totally
or partially deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) or Additional Tier 1 capital
may also be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure.
 Prudent valuation adjustments for exposures to less liquid positions that are deducted
from Tier 1 capital as per the Central Bank’s Market Risk Standards may be deducted
from the leverage ratio exposure measure.
Liability items must not be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure. For
example, gains/losses on fair valued liabilities or accounting value adjustments on derivative
liabilities due to changes in the bank’s own credit risk must not be deducted from the leverage
ratio exposure measure.
The Central Bank will be vigilant to transactions and structures that have the result
of inadequately capturing banks’ sources of leverage. Examples of concerns that might arise
in such leverage ratio exposure measure minimizing transactions and structures may
include: securities financing transactions where exposure to the counterparty increases as
the counterparty’s credit quality decreases or securities financing transactions in which the
credit quality of the counterparty is positively correlated with the value of the securities
received in the transaction (i.e. the credit quality of the counterparty falls when the value of
the securities falls); banks that normally act as principal but adopt an agency model to
transact in derivatives and SFTs in order to benefit from the more favorable treatment
permitted for agency transactions under the leverage ratio framework; collateral swap trades
structured to mitigate inclusion in the leverage ratio exposure measure; or use of structures
to move assets off the balance sheet. This list of examples is by no means exhaustive.
d. On-Balance Sheet Exposures
Where a bank recognizes fiduciary assets on the balance sheet, these assets can be
excluded from the leverage ratio exposure measure provided that the assets meet the IFRS
9 criteria for de-recognition and, where applicable, IFRS 10 for deconsolidation.
e. Derivative Exposures
The basis for the framework’s treatment of derivative transactions is a modified
version of Standardised Approach to Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) in Basel III. It
captures both the exposure arising from the underlying of the derivative contract and the
related counterparty credit risk. The exposure measure amount is generally equal to the sum
of the replacement cost (the mark-to-market value of contracts with positive value) and an
add-on representing the transaction’s potential future exposure, with that sum multiplied by
a scaling factor of 1.4. Valid bilateral netting contracts can reduce the exposure amount, but
196

[Document: document.pdf, Page 199]
CBUAE Classification: Public
collateral received generally cannot. There are specific rules governing the treatment of cash
variation margin, clearing services and written credit derivatives.
If, under a bank’s operative accounting standards, there is no accounting measure of
exposure for certain derivative instruments because they are held (completely) off balance
sheet, the bank must use the sum of positive fair values of these derivatives as the
replacement cost.
Netting across product categories such as derivatives and SFTs is not permitted in
determining the leverage ratio exposure measure. However, where a bank has a cross-
product netting agreement in place that meets the eligibility criteria; it may choose to perform
netting separately in each product category provided that all other conditions for netting in
this product category that are applicable to the leverage ratio framework are met.”
Variation margin may be netted against derivative exposures, but only where the
margin is paid in cash. This is the appropriate treatment for the leverage calculation, since
the cash margin payment is, for all intents and purposes, a settlement of a liability. It also
has the advantage, as would not have otherwise been the case, of encouraging the good
risk management practice of taking cash collateral against derivative exposures, and is
consistent with broader regulatory objectives that promote the margining of OTC derivatives.
One of the criteria necessary in order to recognize cash variation margin received as
a form of pre-settlement payment is that variation margin exchanged must be the full amount
necessary to extinguish the mark-to-market exposure of the derivative. In situations where a
margin dispute arises, the amount of non-disputed variation margin that has been exchanged
can be recognized.
Where a bank provides clearing services as a “higher level client” within a multi-level
client structure, the bank need not recognize in its leverage ratio exposure measure the
resulting trade exposures to the ultimate clearing member (CM) or to an entity that provides
higher-level services to the bank if it meets specific conditions.
Among these conditions is a requirement that offsetting transactions are identified by
the QCCP as higher level client transactions and collateral to support them is held by the
QCCP and/or the CM, as applicable, under arrangements that prevent any losses to the
higher level client due to the joint default or insolvency of the CM and any of its other clients.
To clarify, upon the insolvency of the clearing member, there must be no legal impediment
(other than the need to obtain a court order to which the client is entitled) to the transfer of
the collateral belonging to clients of a defaulting clearing member to the QCCP, to one or
more other surviving clearing members or to the client or the client’s nominee.
Another required condition is that relevant laws, regulation, rules, contractual or
administrative arrangements provide that the offsetting transactions with the defaulted or
insolvent CM are highly likely to continue to be indirectly transacted through the QCCP, or
by the QCCP, if the CM defaults or becomes insolvent. Assessing whether trades are highly
likely to be ported should consider factors such as a clear precedent for transactions being
ported at a QCCP, and industry intent for this practice to continue. The fact that QCCP
documentation does not prohibit client trades from being ported is not sufficient to conclude
that they are highly likely to be ported.
The effective notional amount referenced by a written credit derivative is to be
included in the leverage ratio exposure measure. Note that this is added to the general
exposure measure for derivatives because a written credit derivative exposes a bank both to
counterparty credit risk and to credit risk from the underlying reference entity for the
derivative.
The effective notional amount of a written credit derivative may be reduced by any
negative change in fair value amount that has been incorporated into the calculation of Tier
1 capital with respect to the written credit derivative. For example, if a written credit derivative
197

[Document: document.pdf, Page 200]
CBUAE Classification: Public
had a positive fair value of 20 on one date, but then declines by 30 to have a negative fair
value of 10 on a subsequent reporting date, the effective notional amount of the credit
derivative may be reduced by 10 – the effective notional amount may not be reduced by 30.
However, if on the subsequent reporting date, the credit derivative has a positive fair value
of five, the effective notional amount cannot be reduced at all. This treatment is consistent
with the rationale that the effective notional amounts included in the exposure measure may
be capped at the level of the maximum potential loss, which means that the maximum
potential loss at the reporting date is the notional amount of the credit derivative minus any
negative fair value that has already reduced Tier 1 capital.
The resulting exposure amount for a written credit derivative may be further reduced
by the effective notional amount of a purchased credit derivative on the same reference
name, provided that certain conditions are met. Among these conditions is a requirement
that credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is otherwise subject to the same
or more conservative terms as those in the corresponding written credit derivative. For
example, the application of the same material terms would result in the following treatments:
 In the case of single name credit derivatives, the credit protection purchased through
credit derivatives is on a reference obligation that ranks pari passu with, or is junior
to, the underlying reference obligation of the written credit derivative. Credit
protection purchased through credit derivatives that references a subordinated
position may offset written credit derivatives on a more senior position of the same
reference entity as long as a credit event on the senior reference asset would result
in a credit event on the subordinated reference asset.
 For tranched products, the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives
must be on a reference obligation with the same level of seniority.
Another required condition is that the credit protection purchased through credit
derivatives is not purchased from a counterparty whose credit quality is highly correlated with
the value of the reference obligation, which would generate wrong-way risk. Specifically, the
credit quality of the counterparty must not be positively correlated with the value of the
reference obligation (i.e. the credit quality of the counterparty falls when the value of the
reference obligation falls and the value of the purchased credit derivative increases). This
determination should reflect careful analysis of the actual risk; a legal connection does not
need to exist between the counterparty and the underlying reference entity.
For the purposes of the leverage ratio, the term “written credit derivative” refers to a
broad range of credit derivatives through which a bank effectively provides credit protection
and is not limited solely to credit default swaps and total return swaps. For example, all
options where the bank has the obligation to provide credit protection under certain
conditions qualify as “written credit derivatives.” The effective notional amount of such
options sold by the bank may be offset by the effective notional amount of options by which
the bank has the right to purchase credit protection that fulfils the conditions stated in the
Standards. For example, to have the same or more conservative material terms, the strike
price of the underlying purchased credit protection would need to be equal to or lower than
the strike price of the underlying sold credit protection.
f. Securities Financing Transaction (SFT) Exposures
Secured lending and borrowing in the form of SFTs is an important source of
leverage. How the framework measures exposure from SFTs depends on whether the bank
is acting as a principal or agent. For principal banks, the exposure measure is equal to the
sum of gross SFT assets (gross receivables related to SFTs, with some adjustments) and
an amount representing counterparty credit risk. When acting as an agent, depending on the
structure of the SFT, a bank may be able to ignore the collateral involved and reflect only the
counterparty credit risk component, or it may have to include both. The framework also
198