[Document: PI.pdf, Page 140 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
C. International Access and Transparency
7. The individual ratings, the key elements underlying the ratings, and whether the issuer
participated in the rating process should be information that is publicly available on a non-selective
basis.
8. In order to promote transparency and enable stakeholders to make decisions about the
appropriateness of its credit rating methods, an ECAI should disclose sufficient information (e.g.,
rating definition, methods of arriving at the rating, rating process, time horizon of the rating, and
the surveillance and review procedure) to facilitate such decisions. The ECAI’s general
procedures, methodologies, and assumptions for arriving at ratings should be publicly available.
D. Disclosure
9. A rating should be disclosed as soon as practicably possible after issuance. When
disclosing a rating, the information should be clearly worded, and should indicate the nature of
the rating and relevant limitations, while providing appropriate warning to users of the potential
danger of unduly relying on the rating to make investment or other decisions.
10. To promote transparency and market discipline, an ECAI should demonstrate that it
provides access to information that enables stakeholders to make decisions about the
appropriateness of ratings for the intended use or uses. At a minimum, the ECAI is expected to
make public the following information:
 Code of conduct;
 Definition of default;
 The time horizons reflected in ratings;
 Rating definitions;
 Rating methods;
 Actual default rates experienced in each rating category;
 Rating transition matrices;
 Whether particular ratings are solicited or unsolicited;
 The date of last review and update of ratings;
 The general nature of compensation arrangements with rated entities; and
 Any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
11. At a minimum, the following conflict-of-interest situations and their influence on the ECAI’s
credit rating methodologies or credit rating actions must be disclosed:
(i) The ECAI is being paid to issue a credit rating by a rated entity or by the obligor,
originator, underwriter, or arranger of a rated obligation;
(ii) The ECAI is being paid by subscribers with a financial interest that could be affected
by a credit rating action of the ECAI;
141

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 141]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The ECAI is being paid by rated entities, obligors, originators, underwriters,
arrangers, or subscribers for services other than issuing credit ratings or providing
access to the ECAI’s credit ratings;
(iv) The ECAI is providing a preliminary indication or similar indication of credit quality to
an entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger prior to being hired to determine
the final credit rating for the entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger; and
(v) The ECAI has a direct or indirect ownership interest in a rated entity or obligor, or a
rated entity or obligor has a direct or indirect ownership interest in the ECAI.
12. An ECAI should disclose the general nature of its compensation arrangements with rated
entities, obligors, lead underwriters, or arrangers. When the ECAI receives compensation
unrelated to its credit rating services from a party such as a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead
underwriter, or arranger, the ECAI should disclose such compensation as a percentage of the
total annual compensation received from that party in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate. An ECAI should disclose in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate, if it receives 10% or more of its annual revenue from a single party
(e.g., a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead underwriter, arranger, or subscriber, or any of their
affiliates).
E. Resources
13. ECAI should possess sufficient human and technical resources to produce high quality
credit ratings. Evidence of resource sufficiency includes:
(i) Technical expertise of the people should be sufficient to conduct the analysis to
support the assignment of ratings, and to maintain contact with senior and
operational levels within the entities that are rated. In particular, ECAIs should assign
analysts with appropriate knowledge and experience to assess the creditworthiness
of the type of entity or obligation being rated; and
(ii) With respect to technical resources, an ECAI is expected to apply quantitative
techniques and models that can appropriately process and analyze the quantities of
data required to support the rating process.
F. Credibility
14. The ECAI must demonstrate that it enjoys credibility in the markets in which it operates.
Such credibility is gauged on the basis of:
(i) The extent to which it meets the resources requirements stated above;
(ii) The extent to which independent parties (investors, insurers etc.) rely on the ECAI’s
risk ratings; and
(iii) The existence of internal procedures to preventmisuse of confidential information.
142

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 142]
CBUAE Classification: Public
G. No Abuse of Unsolicited Ratings
15. The Central Bank may request the ECAI to demonstrate that it has not used unsolicited
ratings to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings. If the Central Bank becomes aware
of an ECAI using unsolicited ratings to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings, the
Central Bank may consider whether it is appropriate to revoke the recognition of the ECAI as
eligible for capital adequacy purposes.
H. Cooperation with the Supervisor
16. Eligible ECAIs should notify the Central Bank of significant changes to methodologies,
and should provide the Central Bank with sufficient access to external ratings and other relevant
data to support initial and ongoing determination of eligibility.
I. Code of Conduct and Regulation
17. The ECAI must adopt and adhere to a code of conduct that is consistent with the IOSCO
CRA Code. The ECAI must be subject to effective supervision on an ongoing basis by a
competent regulatory authority that has adopted a regulatory regime consistent with the IOSCO
CRA Code, and that incorporates a registration system for ECAIs.
III. Recognition of ECAIs
18. The Central Bank’s standards for capital adequacy include mappings that identify risk
weights for various types of exposures using a scale that corresponds most closely to the rating
system used by Standard & Poor’s. This is done for purposes of exposition and for consistency
with the BCBS framework. However, banks should not interpret use of this scale as a Central
Bank endorsement of any particular rating agency. Banks may select among all eligible rating
agencies as appropriate for purposes of determining risk weights.
19. On the basis of information assessed by the Central Bank, the following entities currently
meet the criteria for eligible ECAIs described in this Guidance:
(i) Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services;
(ii) Moody’s Investors Service;
(iii) Fitch Ratings; and
(iv) Capital Intelligence.
20. The Central Bank has concluded that banks can use the ratings of any of the above ECAIs.
Banks should be aware that the Central Bank regularly reassesses the extent to which any ECAI
meets the criteria stated in this Guidance. Banks must take steps to confirm that any ratings used
in capital adequacy calculations are obtained from ECAIs that continue to be viewed as eligible
by the Central Bank. Additional entities may be approved as eligible ECAIs in due course.
21. Based on available information regarding the rating processes of these ECAIs, the Central
Bank has established the correspondence shown in Table 1 between the long-term rating scales
of the various ECAIs. However, if a bank determines that a different mapping is more appropriate,
the bank should use that alternative mapping, provided the results are at least as conservative as
using the mapping below.
143

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 143]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Table 1: Long-Term Rating Correspondence
S & P Fitch Moody’s Capital Intelligence
AAA to AA‐ AAA to AA‐ Aaa to Aa3 AAA to AA-
A+ to A‐ A+ to A‐ A1 to A3 A+ to A-
BBB+ to BBB‐ BBB+ to BBB‐ Baa1 to Baa3 BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB‐ BB+ to BB‐ Ba1 to Ba3 BB+ to BB-
B+ to B‐ B+ to B‐ B1 to B3 B+ to B-
Below B- Below B- Below B3 Below B-
Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated
22. For certain aspects of capital adequacy calculations, short‐term ratings are used. Based
on available information regarding the rating processes of these ECAIs, the Central Bank has
established the correspondence shown in Table 2 between the short-term rating scales of the
eligible ECAIs. However, as with the long-term ratings, if a bank determines that a different
mapping is more appropriate, the bank should use that alternative mapping, provided the results
are at least as conservative as using the mapping below.
Table 2: Short-Term Rating Correspondence
S & P Fitch Moody’s Capital Intelligence
A‐1+, A‐1 F1+, F1 P‐1 A1+, A1
A‐2 F2 P‐2 A2
A‐3 F3 P‐3 A3
Below A‐3 Below F3 Not prime Below A3
IV. Bank Use of Ratings
A. Bank Use of ECAI Ratings
23. For the purpose of applying ECAI ratings to derive risk‐weights for exposures, banks
should apply the following process:
(i) Identify an ECAI (the “nominated ECAI”) whose assigned ratings the bank intends
to use to derive risk weights for some type of exposure that is subject to an external
ratings‐based approach under Central Bank standards;
(ii) Confirm that the nominated ECAIs can provide reasonable coverage of the bank’s
exposures in terms of the types of counterparties and the geographical regions
covered;
(iii) Document the selection of the ECAI and the analysis demonstrating that the ratings