[Document: PI.pdf, Page 45 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Aggregate to get hedging set add-on,
Aggregate absolute value of currency-
with full offset for systematic components
pair add-ons to get hedging set add-on
and no offset for idiosyncratic
for FX derivatives
components
8. Asset-Class Add-On Calculation
Simple summation of add-ons across hedging sets for each asset class
9. Aggregate Add-On Calculation
Simple summation of asset-class add-ons across asset classes
10. Potential Future Exposure (PFE) Calculation
Apply multiplier reflecting impact of any negative contract value or over-
collateralization to aggregate add-on, possibly reducing PFE by up to
95%
11. Exposure at Default (EAD) Calculation
Sum RC and PFE for the netting set, and multiply by 1.4. If the resulting
EAD for margined trades exceeds EAD if un-margined, use the un-
margined EAD.
46

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 46]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IV. Frequently Asked Questions
A. Netting
Question A1: Does a bank need written approval for each netting agreement it has in place,
or will the Central Bank provide a list of pre-approved jurisdictions or counterparties?
The bank should establish an internal process that considers the factors identified in the
Standards. That process should be subject to internal review and challenge per the Standards.
The Central Bank will review the identification of netting sets as part of the supervisory process,
and notify the bank of any determinations that netting is not appropriate. The Central Bank will
not provide a list of pre-approved jurisdictions or counterparties.
Question A2: Do amendments to existing netting agreements require approval from the
Central Bank?
Amendments that do not raise new questions about the validity of netting need not be raised to
the Central Bank for consideration.
Question A3: What if netting is not valid? Can netting sets still be used for the calculation?
If the requirements of the Standards for recognition of netting are not satisfied, then each
transaction is its own netting set – a netting set consisting of a single transaction – and many of
the calculations are much simpler.
Question A4: Is use of the standard ISDA agreement sufficient to apply netting?
No, use of the standard ISDA agreement is not in itself sufficient to demonstrate that netting is
validand legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions under the requirements of the Standards.
Question A5: Can we treat trades with a UAE counterparty (UAE Bank or Foreign Bank
operating in the UAE) having a signed ISDA / CSA as a netting set even though the UAE is
not a netting jurisdiction?
No, as noted above, use of the standard ISDA agreement is not in itself sufficient to demonstrate
that netting is valid and legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions under the requirements of
the Standards, and is not a replacement for a determination regarding the legal enforceability of
netting.
Question A6: If there is no netting agreement of any sort in place, what would the treatment
be for trades with negative mark to market? Will they be included or excluded from the
exposure calculation?
Trades with negative value have RC=0, but still have counterparty credit risk, which will be
reflected in the calculation of the PFE component of exposure.
B. Collateral
Question B1: What haircuts should be applied to collateral for the calculations of exposure
net of collateral?
Banks should apply the standard supervisory haircuts from the capital framework.
Question B2: If a counterparty places initial cash margin against a derivatives facility, but
has no signed ISDA / CSA in place, can this cash margin be considered as collateral for
Replacement Cost calculations?
Yes, provided the arrangement allows the bank to retain the cash in the event of a default by the
counterparty.
Question B3: Can collateral received under a CSA be considered as part of the RC
calculation in absence of a netting agreement?
47

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 47]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Yes. Note that in the absence of netting, the netting set would consist of a single trade and any
collateral corresponding to that trade.
C. Classification of Trades
Question C1: For a currency swap involving principal and interest exchange, since there
is exchange rate risk in addition to interest rate risk, do we need to assign the notional to
both the currency and interest rate classes?
Yes, derivatives with exposure to more than one primary risk factor should be allocated to all
relevant asset classes for the PFE calculation, so this transaction should be included in its full
amount in both the Foreign Exchange hedging set and the Interest Rate hedging set.
Question C2: In a cross-currency swap with principal exchange at the beginning and at the
end, and with fixed-rate to fixed-rate interest exchange so that there is no interest rate risk,
should this trade be included only in the foreign currency category?
Yes, it should be treated as FX exposure.
Question C3: Is there any prescribed PFE treatment for a derivative such as a weather
derivative?
Derivatives with "unusual" underlying such as weather or mortality are included in the "Other"
hedging set within the Commodity asset class.
Question C4: Can trades with gold as the underlying asset be treated as currency
derivatives?
No. Although gold often has been grouped with foreign exchange historically, for the CCR
Standards it is to be treated as a metal within the commodity asset class.
D. Supervisory Delta Adjustment
Question D1: What is the Supervisory Delta for FX Swaps and FX Forwards?
These are linear contracts, so the Supervisory Delta is either +1 (for long positions) or -1 (for short
positions).
Question D2: The Standards states that the Supervisory Delta for a short position (one that
is not an option or CDO) should be -1. However, if netting is not permitted, should the
Supervisory Delta be set to +1 for all the short (as well as the long) positions?
In principle, the Supervisory Delta should be -1 if the position is short. However, in the case of a
single-trade netting set, there is no possibility of offsetting, so the sign of the Supervisory Delta
does not affect the calculation.
Question D3: In the case of an option strategy such as a straddle or strangle involving
more than one type of option (e.g. a long call and a long put), which Supervisory Delta
should be used?
In the case of positions that involve combinations of options, the position should be decomposed
into its simpler option components, appropriate Supervisory Deltas determined for each
component, and the weighted average Supervisory Delta applied to the position as a whole.
Question D4: In the case of an option strategy involving multiple options with only one leg
having a possibility of exercise, can we consider this structure as a "short" position if we
are net receiver of the premium and a "long" position if we are net payer of premium?
As noted above, in the case of positions that involve combinations of options, the position should
be decomposed into its simpler option components, appropriate Supervisory Deltas determined
for each component, and the weighted average Supervisory Delta applied to the position as a
48

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 48]
CBUAE Classification: Public
whole. In this case, some of the Supervisory Deltas would be positive, and some would be
negative. The sign of the overall Supervisory Delta would depend on the relative size of the
positions, and the associated magnitude (in absolute value) of the deltas.
Question D5: Should the same set of Supervisory Deltas be used in the case of path
dependent options such as barrier options, or other complex options? For such products,
the simple option delta formula may not be appropriate.
Banks should apply the standardised formulas for the CCR calculations, including the Supervisory
Delta adjustment for all options. Note that use of a single, simplified formula for the Supervisory
Delta for options is a feature of the Standardised Approach. Like all standardised approaches, the
SA-CCR involves numerous trade-offs between precision and simplicity. Many other aspects of
the Standardised Approach use approximations, such as the assumption that a single correlation
should be used for all commodity derivatives, or the use of a single volatility for all FX options.
Banks should certainly use more analytically appropriate deltas for internal purposes such as
valuation and risk management.
E. Hedging Sets
Question E1: Can different floating rates within the same base currency be included in