[Document: PI.pdf, Page 110 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Yes, this will fall under qualifying category as long as it rated investment grade by at least two
credit rating agencies.
Question 6: Should general criteria for all investment grade securities other than
Government Issuers be taken under the category of Qualifying?
Yes, these instruments will be classified as qualifying provided in paragraphs 16-19.
Question 7: As per the Standards, "the separate legs of cross-currency swaps or forward
foreign exchange deals are to be treated as notional positions in the relevant instruments
and included in the appropriate calculation for each currency". Under which method these
are required to be included in MR-3 i.e Maturity method or Duration method.
General risk can be computed using Maturity and Duration approach. Paragraph 41 on
"Allowable offsetting of matched positions" of the market risk standard applies to both
approaches and depends on what approach the bank uses for reporting.
Question 8: If the options are hedged, do we need to input the numbers in the template.
If it is fully micro hedged, then Net Forward Purchase (Sales) & Delta weighted positions for
Options will be zero. Refer to VII Appendix: Prudent Valuation Guidance as part of Market risk
standard.
Question 9: Banks have the possibility to include the repo transactions in the trading book
for regulatory capital calculation even though they are accounted in the banking book?
Term trading-related repo-style transactions that meet the requirements for trading-book
treatment may be included in the bank’s trading book for regulatory capital purposes even if a
bank accounts for those transactions in the banking book. If the bank does so, all such repo-style
transactions must be included in the trading book, and both legs of such transactions, either cash
or securities, must be included in the trading book. Regardless of where they are booked, all repo-
style transactions are subject to a credit risk capital requirement under the Central Bank’s
Standards for Credit Risk Capital. The secured part of the exposure is risk weighted based on the
credit rating/type of the issuer the security serving as collateral, and the unsecured part is risk
weighted based on the credit rating/type (bank-sovereign-corporate) of the counterparty. In
addition, how/where the reporting should be under which risk type (e.g. interest rate risk (Specific
and/or General), FX, Equity, etc.) depends on the nature of the cash placement (one ‘leg’) and
that of the security/collateral (other ‘leg’). The two legs are reportable to the relevant market risk
type. For example, if the cash placement is floating rate and denominated in foreign currency it
would be reported under FX. In regards to position risk (interest rate and equity risk types), it
would be under General risk.
Question 10: How do we treat the capital charge when an exposure in the Banking book is
hedged via a derivative in the trading book?
As long as the position got an open leg under one of the two books (i.e. Banking or trading),
applicable capital charge should be taken in place. When a bank hedges a banking book credit
risk exposure using a credit derivative booked in its trading book (i.e. using an internal hedge),
the banking book exposure is not deemed to be hedged for capital purposes unless the bank
purchases from an eligible third party protection provider a credit derivative meeting the
requirements in the Central Bank’s Standards for Credit Risk. Where such third party protection
is purchased and is recognised as a hedge of a banking book exposure for regulatory capital
purposes, neither the internal nor external credit derivative hedge would be included in the trading
book for regulatory capital purposes.
111

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 111]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 11: BCBS standards provides banks two options to include large swap books in
the maturity or duration ladder (Convert the payments into their present values or to
calculate the sensitivity of the net present value). It would be useful to clarify which
methods are acceptable.
Currently both methods are acceptable but to move forward with sensitivity or NPV approach, the
bank shall seek Central Bank approval by providing all relevant documents.
Question 12: How to treat Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), PSEs and GREs that
qualify 0% risk weight as per Credit Risk Section of the Standards for the “Qualifying”
criteria of Specific Risk?
All MDBs are considered “qualifying” for this purpose and will receive a RW of 0%.
PSE that meets the conditions to be treated like a sovereign for credit risk can be considered
“government" for specific risk.
Commercial GREs that are treated as corporates for credit risk should also be treated as
corporates for market risk, for consistency.
Question 13: Can the securities issued by local government be reported under
government? If yes, what capital charge will be applied?
Only if they qualify for treatment as “sovereign” under the credit risk framework, a 0% can be
applied.
Question 14: What is meant by 'broadly' in paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Market Risk
Standard. Any threshold for the size of the movement e.g. a negative correlation of more
than 0.6?
No, there is no specific threshold. "Broadly" in this context means "with close approximation," to
allow for minor deviations from perfect correlation. The bank should have a sensible policy to
ensure that objective, which should be subject to supervisory review.
Question 15: What is meant by "long term participation"? What is included in it?
Long-term participations could take a number of forms, but a typical example would be
investments accounted at historical cost (and in this context, denominated in a foreign currency).
Paragraph 65 edited for clear understanding.
Question 16: Do the banks have to meet certain criteria to apply duration or maturity
approach or is the choice of method fully within the bank's discretion?
Maturity approach shall be the initial approach to be used. In case the bank requires to apply
Duration approach, then banks will have to seek Central Bank consent to switch between the
approaches.
Question 17: Under Specific interest rate risk, what will be the treatment for the debt
securities that are denominated and funded in domestic currency or foreign currency?
The preferential treatment/national discretion will be applicable to GCC sovereign’s papers
denominated and funded in local currency. In addition, exposures to the Federal Government and
Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight, if such exposures are denominated and funded in
AED or USD for a transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard.
After the transition period, 0% risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated
and funded in AED. Elsewise (if denominated and funded in foreign currency and if the debt
security is not GCC sovereign paper) rating and residual maturity shall be applied.
Question 18: Interest Rate Risk: How are derivatives treated from a market risk and credit
risk perspective that a foreign branch has with its head office and other branches of the
112

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 112]
CBUAE Classification: Public
group? Are all the derivative transactions under the umbrella of the group, can such
derivatives be excluded from the capital charge?
• Exemption is not eligible; all derivatives are to be included under credit and market risk.
• If the branch and the head office both have the same ISDA contract, netting and collateral
will not be eligible. However, if the ISDA contract contains only the deals from the branch,
then netting and collateral would be eligible.
• From Market risk perspective, if the bank's transactions are fully hedged, i.e. certain
derivatives with UAE customers are fully hedged back to back with the head office, then the
bank can offset for example the general and specific interest rate risks (based on
paragraphs 41 to 45). However, counterparty credit risk is still to be considered.
Question 19: Treatment of Options: Do banks have to meet certain criteria to apply the
simplified approach or the delta plus method? Or is the choice of method fully within
bank's discretion?
As per Para 82 (Standard), two alternative approaches apply to options. Banks that only
purchase options (rather than written options) can choose to use a simplified approach. Unless
all written option positions (under the simplified approach) are hedged by perfectly matched long
positions in exactly the same options, in which case no capital charge for market risk is
required. Banks with more complex option positions that also write options must use the delta-
plus approach rather than the simplified approach.
Question 20: Specific Interest Rate Risk: When the securities are not externally credit
rated, does the Central Bank have a list of specific treatment for issuers/ issues that are
unrated?
The Central Bank does not have a discretionary list of customers that do receive a special
treatment if an external rating is not available.
 The standard is exhaustive for all special treatments. For example: UAE and GCC
sovereign exposure that are funded and denominated in the domestic currency receive
0% RW (independent of the external rating of that sovereign)
 Exposures to the Federal Government and Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight,
if such exposures are denominated and funded in AED or USD for a transition period of
7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard. After the transition period, 0%
risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated and funded in AED.
Question 21: If a bank has exposure in equity investments in the trading book, how will
this exposure be treated under Market risk?