[Document: PI.pdf, Page 85 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: BCBS 266 states “Equity holdings in entities whose debt obligations qualify
for a zero risk weight can be excluded from the LTA, MBA and FBA approaches (including
those publicly sponsored entities where a zero risk weight can be applied), at the
discretion of the national supervisor.” Are such equity holdings excluded under the
Central Bank’s Standards?
No, the Central Bank of the UAE has chosen not to adopt this point of national discretion. Bank
investments in such funds are subject to the requirements of the Standards.
Question 2: If a bank makes a “seed capital investment” in a fund that is out of scope of
consolidation, and is considered a significant investment in the common shares of a
banking,financial,orinsuranceentity,isitwithinscopeasanequityinvestmentinafund?
If the investment is one that the bank would be required to deduct from capital, then the investment
is not in scope for this Standards.
Question 3: If a bank makes a “seed capital investment” in a fund, and that fund is managed
by a Fund Manager hired by the bank, is the investment considered to be a direct investment
in the fund, or indirect?
Assuming that the fund in question is not consolidated into the bank under accounting rules for
financial reporting, such an investment is considered a direct investment under the Standards.
Question 4: Under the Standards, what methodology should a bank use to compute
counterparty credit risk exposure for funds in which the bank has an equity investment?
The Standards states that banks must risk weight all exposures as if the bank held those
exposures directly. Thus, the risk weights and the exposure amounts for counterparty credit risk
should be determined using the standards that would apply to the bank. For banks in the UAE,
the applicable standards for counterparty credit risk is the Central Bank’s Standards for
Counterparty Credit Risk Capital, which reflects the Standardised Approach to Counterparty
Credit Risk (SA-CCR).
Question 5: If a bank relies on a third-party information provider for information used to
calculate the leverage adjustment for a fund, does the 1.2 multiplication factor apply?
No, as the Standards states, the factor of 1.2 applies when the bank relies on a third party for the
risk weights of the underlying exposures. This is a conservative adjustment to recognize the
uncertainty associated with such information about risk weights. It does not apply to the leverage
ratio calculation.
Question 6: The FBA applies a risk weight of 1250%, which is significantly higher than the
current risk weights of 100% or 150% that apply to equity investments in funds under
previous capital requirements. Should this risk weight be lower?
The risk weight of 1250% is aligned with international capital standards as developed by the Basel
Committee, and is being adopted by the Central Bank under this Standards. Considering the
higher minimum capital requirements in the UAE (10.5% vs 8%), the final risk weight is capped at
952%.
Question 7: What happens when the bank has mandated intermediaries to invest in fixed
income? Would this investment be included or excluded in the calculation of Equity
Investments?
86

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 86]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Banks having mandated Intermediaries have to go through same framework approach. This
means that if the bank has information for these intermediaries, the bank may use the LTA
approach. If the bank does not have information, then it has to use the MBA or FBA approach.
Question 8: The EIF standards allows for partial use of approaches for reporting EIF and
the RWA calculations from each applied approach are summed, and then divided by total
fund assets to compute “Avg RWfund”. Should the leverage of the fund be proportioned
according to use of approach?
No, the leverage ratio is a single number that applies to the entire fund. When a bank uses more
than one approach to determinethe risk weight (that is, LTA, MBA, and/or FBA), the bank should
report the amounts on separate lines in the reporting template.
87

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 87]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IV. Example Calculations
A. Example of calculation of risk-weighted assets using the LTA
Consider a fund that aims to replicate an equity index using a strategy based on forward
contracts. Assume the fund holds short-term forward contracts for this purpose with a notional
amount of 100 that are cleared through a qualifying central counterparty. Further, assume that
the fund’s financial position can be represented by the following T-account balance sheet:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 20 Notes payable 5
Government bonds (AAA) 30
Variation margin receivable
on forward contracts 50 Equity 95
100 100
Finally, assume that the bank’s equity investment in the fund comprises 20% of the shares of the
fund, and therefore is 20% × 95 = 19.
Using the LTA, the fund’s balance sheet exposures of 100 are risk weighted according to the risk
weights that would be applied tothese assets by the bank. For cash, the risk weight is 0%; for the
government bonds, the risk weight is also 0%. The margin receivable is an exposure to a
qualifying CCP, whichhas 2% risk weight. The underlying risk weight for equity exposures (100%)
is applied to the notional amount of the forward contracts.
Assume that the bank is able to determine that the amount of the CCR exposure to the CCP is
10, which then receives the 2% risk weight for exposures to a qualifying CCP. Note that there is
no CVA charge because the forward contracts are cleared through the qualifying CCP.
The total RWA for the fund is:
20×0% + 30×0% + 50×2% + 100×100% + 10×2% = 101.2
Given the total assets of the fund of 100, the average risk-weight for the fund is:
Avg RW
fund
= 101.2/ 100=101.2%
With fund assets of 100 and fund equity of 95, leverage is calculated as the assets-to-equity ratio,
or 100/95≈1.05. Therefore, the risk-weight for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is:
Risk Weight = 101.2% × (100/95) = 106.5%
Applying this risk weight to the bank’s equity investment in the fund of 19, the bank’s RWA on the
position for the purpose of calculating minimum required capital is 106.5% × 19 = 20.24.
B. Example of calculation of risk-weighted assets using the MBA
Consider a fund with current balance-sheet assets of 100, and assume that the bank is
unable to apply the LTA due to a lack of adequate information. Suppose that the fund’s mandate
states that the fund’s investment objective is to replicate an equity index. In addition to being
88

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 88]
CBUAE Classification: Public
permitted to invest in equities directly as assets and to hold cash balances, the mandate allows
the fund to take long positions in equityindex futures up to a maximum notional amount equivalent
to 80% of the fund’s balance sheet. Since this means that with 100 in assets the fund could have
futures with a notional value of 80, the total on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet exposures
of the fund could reach 180.
Suppose that the fund’s mandate also places a restriction on leverage, allowing the fund to issue
debt up to a maximum of 10% of the total value of the fund’s assets. This debt constraint implies
that with 100 in assets, the fund’s maximum financial leverage would be at a mixture of 10 debt
and 90 equity, for a maximum assets-to-equity ratio of 100/90≈1.11.
Finally, assume that the value of the bank’s investment in the fund is 20.
For the computation of RWA, the on-balance-sheet assets are assumed to be invested to the
maximum extent possible in the riskiest type of asset permitted under the mandate. The mandate
allows either cash (which has a zero risk weight) or equities, so the full 100 is assumed to be in
equities, with a 100% risk weight.
Next, the fund is assumed to enter into derivatives contracts to the maximum extent allowable
under its mandate – stated as 80% of total assets – implying a maximum derivatives notional of
80. This amount receives the risk weight associated with the underlying of the derivatives position,
which in this example is 100% for publicly traded equity holdings.
The calculation of RWA must include an amount for the counterparty credit risk associated with
derivatives. If the bank cannot determine the replacement cost associated with the futures
contracts, then the replacement cost must be approximated by the maximum notional amount of
80. If the PFE is similarly indeterminate, an additional 15% of the notional amount must be added
for PFE. Thus, the CCR exposure is 1.4 x (80×1.15) = 129. Assuming the futures contracts clear
through a qualifying CCP, a risk weight of 2% applies to the CCR exposure, and no CVA charge
is assessed for the CCP.
The total RWA for the fund is the sum of the components for on-balance-sheet assets, off-
balance-sheet exposures, and CCR:
100×100% + 80×100% + 129×2% = 182.58
Given the total assets of the fund of 100, the average risk-weight for the fund is:
Avg RW
fund
= 182.58 / 100 = 182.58%
As noted above, the fund’s maximum leverage is approximately 1.11 at an assets-to-equity ratio
of 100/90. Therefore, the risk-weight for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is:
Risk Weight = 182.58% × (100/90) = 202.87%
Applying this risk weight of 202.87% to the bank’s equity investment in the fund of 20, the bank’s
RWA on the position for the purpose of calculating minimum required capital is 202.87% × 20 =
40.57.
89

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 89]
CBUAE Classification: Public
VII. Securitisation
I. Introduction
In December 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) published a
revised framework for calculating bank capital requirements for securitisation exposures, with
further revisions in July 2016. The revised securitisation framework aimed to address a number
of shortcomings in the Basel II securitisation framework and to strengthen the capital standards