
X. Frequently-Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: What defines independent validation?
Answer: Independent validation can be performed by an independent function of the bank. However, in
some instances an external validation/ review is required. For large banks, external validations are
strongly encouraged, if not explicitly required.
Question 2: What are sustainable business model criteria?
Answer: Sustainable business models may be defined in different ways. For the purpose of this
guidance, a bank will be considered to have a sustainable business model if it meets all the following
criteria:
(i) The bank generates strong and stable returns, which are acceptable given its
risk appetite and funding structure;
(ii) The bank does not have any material asset concentrations or unsustainable
concentrated sources of income;
171

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 24]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The bank has a strong competitive position in its chosen markets and its strategy
is likely to reinforce this strength;
(iv) The bank’s forecasts are based on plausible assumptions about the future
business environment; and
(v) The bank’s strategic plans are appropriate given the current business model and
management’s execution capabilities.
Question 3: What is the definition of model?
Answer: A quantitative method, system, or approach that applies statistical, economic, financial, or
mathematical theories, techniques, and assumptions to process input data into quantitative estimates.
Question 4: Who should be the owner of ICAAP, Finance or Risk Management?
Answer: Multiple committees and working groups have to be involved in the ICAAP. However, Risk
Management should have the ultimate responsibility for the final ICAAP outcome report, the ICAAP
being in substance a risk evaluation process. The Board must approve the ICAAP, its outcomes, and
the proposed mitigation actions.
Question 5: The bank uses multi-period ST scenarios over three years. Which reporting year
(Y1/2/3) shall be reported in the Pillar 2 template in Appendix 2 – ICAAP: Executive summary
table (Table 3)?
Answer: Banks using multi-period stress scenarios should include the most severe period of the most
severe stress test results (reverse stress scenarios not considered). All other banks that perform a
simpler point in time or 1-period stress scenario should include the most severe ST results (reverse
stress scenarios not considered). In addition, the evaluation of Pillar 2 risks and stress test impact as of
the reportingdate is mandatory for all banks.
Question 6: Does the bank have to present the capital contingency plan as part of ICAAP report?,
If the bank plans to inject capital, is it required to have two capital plans, one with and a second
plan without capital injection?
Answer:
(i) The bank must have a Board-approved capital contingency policy. The actual
capital contingency plan as a response to the ICAAP results has to be in line
with the capital contingency policy and the ICAAP report should contain at least
an overview of the capital contingency plan.
(ii) If the bank plan to change its capital base, the bank should have one capital
plan, which reflects the capital injections (and reflects the source of injection).
Injections can be considered if approved by Senior Management, if part of the
official bank’s capital plan and if the Central Bank is informed on the planned
capital injections. A stress test scenario has to show the impact if the injections
do not materialise.
Question 7: What is the ICAAP submission timeframe and can an extension be granted?
Answer: The ICAAP submission should comply with the schedule specified in Section VIII - ICAAP
Submission and Approval. An extension of the ICAAP report submission date will only be granted in
exceptional cases, by the bank’s Central Bank reviewer.
Question 8: Can banks implement the IRB methodology in full (i.e. A-IRB) while reporting credit
172

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 25]
CBUAE Classification: Public
risk under the ICAAP, and is it mandatory?
Answer: The bank should apply whichever approach is deemed appropriate for their size and complexity,
as the ICAAP is an internal process. The evaluation of whether the Pillar 1 capital is adequate for the
bank's risk is mandatory. The F-IRB approach is an accepted approach. With the implementation of
IFRS9 banks have a PD for every exposure, which may be used to calculate the F-IRB capital. It is,
however, not mandatory to fully implement the F-IRB approach. Comparing regulatory capital
requirements with those determined using the F-IRB does indicate to what extent regulatory Pillar 1
capital requirements may be insufficient. The comparison between the F-IRB approach and the
regulatory standardised approach for credit risk has to be performed on an asset class level and the
greater capital requirement should be applied in the ICAAP.
The F-IRB should follow the floor on the PD of 0.03% and apply a fixed 45% LGD. The bank may
consider certain eligible collateral to reduce the LGD accordingly. The bank shall not use own
estimations of the LGD under the F-IRB.
Question 9: Is it required to calculate a capital charge against the financial risks from climate
change in the ICAAP? Is any calculation methodology prescribed for this?
Answer: The bank should understand risks related to climate change and their impact on the
sustainability of the bank and the risks of its business strategy. Banks should develop adequate
methodologies to quantify the risk with models sophistication depending on size and business model.
Stress tests and scenario analysis should be explored. Banks should consider assessing their green
asset ratio (GAR) which measures a bank's “green assets” as a share of its total assets as an initial tool.
The risk identification process should determine whether the risk arising from climate change is a
material capital risk for the bank.
Question 10: How commercial / non-commercial subsidiaries have be treated as part of the
ICAAP exercise? And how to treat investments in insurance subsidiaries?
Answer: One of the key components of the ICAAP is to determine whether the capital requirement under
the Standardised Approach is adequately reflecting the risk. Additional risks arising from investment in
subsidiaries should be addressed and assessed in the ICAAP. The bank should consider any subsidiary
including commercial, non-commercial, and insurance subsidiaries.
Question 11: The ICAAP has to be performed on consolidated level. Is it an additional
requirement to perform the ICAAP also at solo level or should the ICAAP also have a solo-level
analysis?
Answer: The ICAAP needs to address additional risks that are not covered (or not fully covered) under
Pillar 1. The ICAAP is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand-alone basis, at
regulatory consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should evaluate the capital
requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory consolidation.
However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the group structure of the bank.
The ICAAP guidance lays out the importance to consider the group structure when evaluating the banks'
capital adequacy, in Section IV "ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test”. The bank should be in a
position to report, measure and manage risks arising from its subsidiaries, branches, group entities and
from the consolidation process. The ICAAP should reflect the results of the bank’s analysis.
Consequently, the analysis should consider all relevant levels of the group structure (consolidated, solo,
entity level, and including significant affiliate investments). Additional risks may have to be addressed
as a specific additional capital add-on.
Question 12: Does the bank require a separate capital plan approved by the Board, or is it
sufficient to have the approved ICAAP that includes the capital plan?
173

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 26 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Answer: The capital management policy and the ICAAP complement each other. The policy sets the
framework and the capital management plan describes the capital management strategy and the steps
to achieve it in compliance with the policy. The capital management plan can be a separate document.
However, the ICAAP report should display the full picture, including an overview of the capital
management policy and the capital management plan related to the ICAAP outcomes.
Question 13: If a bank reports regulatory operational risk capital requirements using the BIA, can
the Standardised Approach be used to quantify the potential additional operational risk charge
under Pillar 2 if the capital requirement is higher under the SA compared to the BIA?
Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank must determine the most adequate methodology
to quantify the extent to which regulatory capital requirements for operational risk fail to adequately
address the true extent of its potential operational risk losses.
Question 14: Can the bank use the market risk stress test template as shared for Central Bank
Econometric Stress test exercise in its ICAAP?
Answer: The bank should determine the most adequate approach to quantify its risks. The quantification
methodology should obtain internal approval. The methodology needs to be explained, validated and
reasoned in detail as part of the methodology development and continuous model monitoring process.
Question 15: Does the Internal Audit (IA) review required under Section IX - Internal Control
Review contradict the requirement in Appendix 3.4, which requires banks to disclose the Internal
Audit findings in the ICAAP report?
Answer: The Central Bank is of the opinion that IA is not suffering a conflict of interest by reviewing a
bank’s ICAAP and by disclosing its general findings and findings specific to the ICAAP in the ICAAP
report. IAis involved twofold in the ICAAP report:
(i) IA has to perform a review of the ICAAP (process) periodically as part of the
audit function.
(ii) IA has to perform the prescribed review for each ICAAP, to be submitted within
3 months of the submission.
The ICAAP report shall contain the most recent (available) audit findings, their status, and actions taken.
(Note, that in the Capital Standards, para 13 under Introduction and Scope requires an annual review of
the capital framework.)
Question 16: Why does the Standard/ Guidance not address any specifics related to Islamic
banking?
Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank should determine the most adequate
methodology to quantify risks arising for Islamic banks in general and Islamic banking products
specifically.
Question 17: Being a branch of an international bank, is a third party validation required, as this
is already conducted at the parent company/ group level covering risk frameworks, systems and
models?
Answer: Branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks are required to validate the risk valuation
methodologies deployed in their UAE operations. If the branch or subsidiary is applying head office
methodologies, these should nevertheless be validated on branch or subsidiary level. In addition, the
branch or subsidiary has to have a full understanding of the applied methodologies as it cannot fully rely
on the head office.
174