
those management actions that have been approved by the bank’s Board.
39. If the bank plans the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights issues,
reduction in the equity, etc.), the bank may consider the capital increase in its capital planning.
The bank should only consider capital increases that have obtained Senior Management
approval and form part of the bank’s official capital plan and that have been discussed with the
Central Bank. A bank that considers capital increases in it capital planning has to perform an
additional stress test scenario to analyse the impact if the capital increase does not materialise.
40. The following elements should be included in the ICAAP report or related appendix:
(i) Assumptions related to business developments over the forecasted period;
(ii) Assumptions related to the economic environment over the forecasted period;
(iii) Summary of historic capital base, aggregate RWAs, and CAR ratios for a
minimum of five (5) years;
(iv) Disclosure of the following forecasted financial projections:
(v) Detailed balance sheet;
(vi) Detailed statement of profit and loss;
(vii) Break down of Capital base into its regulatory components;
(viii) Break down of Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) components;
(ix) Significant ratios (e.g. CET 1, Tier 1, and CAR);
(x) A method to calibrate capital needs to the current and expected levels of risks,
in coherence with the bank’s risk appetite, business plan, and strategy;
(xi) It should include the likely future constraints on the availability and the use of
capital; and
(xii) Any future regulatory and accounting changes that can potentially impact such
plan.
41. Banks are required to fulfill internal risk appetite requirements in the bank’s self-
assessment of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 minimum regulatory capital requirements. Banks should
156

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 9]
CBUAE Classification: Public
fulfill the minimum capital requirements plus capital buffer requirements under business as
usual (BAU) conditions. Under stress testing (ST) banks should fulfill the minimum capital
requirements without the requirement to meet buffer requirements.
42. The capital planning should not be limited to risk-based capital ratios but should also
consider the leverage ratio of the bank. Bank should analyse and consider unaccounted
foreseeable events in the capital plan, e.g. regulatory changes like the revised standardised
approaches for credit, marketand operational risk.
VI. Material Risks
43. As a part of its risk management practices, each bank is responsible for implementing
a regular process to identify, measure, report, monitor, and mitigate risks. Such risk
management process should be used as direct input into the calibration of capital demand to
cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks. The framework supporting the estimation of capital
consumption for each risk type should approved by Senior Management and the Board.
44. All risks identified as material risks are expected to be addressed in the ICAAP. Risk
materiality should depend on each bank’s business model and risk profile. The scope of such
risk identification should cover the entire group, including all branches and subsidiaries of the
bank. The Central Bank considers credit concentration risk and interest rate risk in the banking
book (IRRBB) as defined in this Guidance, as material risks. Given the growing risk universe
outside of traditional Pillar 1 risks, each bank must define, update, and review the applicable
ICAAP risks on a continuous basis (e.g. quarterly).
45. The identification of risks should distinguish between direct risks and indirect risks.
Direct risks are explicit and commonly identifiable risks, such as the credit risk associated with
facility underwriting. Indirect risks are arising as second order consequences of direct risks
and unforeseen events. For instance, an increase in fraud and cyber-attacks as a
consequence of an economic downturn or a pandemic during which employees are forced to
work from home. Other examples are the credit risk arising from derivatives during periods of
high market volatility or the increase in credit risk resulting from a drop in collateral values
following a real estate market crash.
46. The identification of risks should be supported by a regular and structured process. An
inventory of risks should be recorded for each business activity and each portfolio on a regular
basis. In addition to the regular updates (i.e. at least quarterly), it is expected to adjust the
inventory whenever it no longer reflects the risks that are material, e.g. because a new product
has been introduced or certain business activities have been expanded. This should support
the production of ICAAP from one year to the next.
47. The measurement of risk should be transparent, documented, and supported by
subject-matter experts throughout the bank. Each expert function should contribute to its area
of expertise, in such way that the ICAAP is a reflection of a collective work substantiated by
thorough analysis. Each dedicated risk team should provide a comprehensive assessment of
the risk drivers and materiality of the risk they manage.
48. The estimation of the capital consumption associated with each risk should be based
upon clear methodologies designed appropriately for each risk type. Each bank should identify
the owner of such methodology either within the team responsible to manage risks or with a
centralised team responsible for aggregating risk information and to construct the ICAAP.
Ultimately, the process to identify, measure risks, and estimate the associated capital
consumption should be approved by Senior Management and the Board.
49. In the case of vendor models, this includes the expectation that such models are not
expected to be imported mechanistically, but rather they are expected to be fully understood
157

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 10]
CBUAE Classification: Public
by the bank and well suited for, and tailored to, its business and its risk profile.
50. The identification of risks should result in distinct types:
(i) Pillar 1 risks that are not fully captured and that are covered by insufficient
capital. For instance, the market risk capital consumption under Pillar 1 might
not incorporate sufficient basis risk; and
(ii) Risks that are not captured at all as part of the Pillar 1 framework.
51. Each bank should not develop separate methodologies for risk measurement, if those
are not employed for risk management. The Use Test assumes that the method and conclusion
of the ICAAP should be coherent with the bank’s internal practices.
52. To ensure an adequate assessment of high quality, each bank should establish, and
implement an effective data quality framework, to deploy adequate processes, and control
mechanisms to ensure the quality of data. The data quality framework should ensure reliable
risk information that supports sound decision-making, covers all relevant risk data, and data
quality dimensions.
53. The next sections contain explanations and expectations on certain risk types (e.g.
Business Model Analysis (BMA) and strategic risk, Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,
and Credit concentration risk).
A. Business Model Analysis (BMA) and Strategic Risk
54. Business model analysis embodies the risk that the bank has failed to structure its
organisation and operations (expertise, systems, and processes) in a way that leads to
achieving its primary business and strategic objectives.
55. Strategic risks arise when the bank’s business model, organisation structure,
operations, and/or strategy are no longer adequate to deliver the objective of the bank as
specified by the Board.
56. The bank should conduct regular business model analysis (BMA) to assess its
business and strategic risks to determine:
(i) The ability of the bank’s current business model to deliver suitable results over
the following 12 months;
(ii) The sustainability of the bank’s strategy and its ability to deliver suitable/
acceptable results over a forward-looking period of at least three (3) to five (5)
years, based on the strategic plansand financial planning;
(iii) The sustainability and sufficient diversification of income over time (three (3) to
five (5) years). This analysis should consider the sources and levels of income
and expenses; and
(iv) The ability of the bank to deliver total financial data across the group and for
each of its key business units (includes forward-looking performance and
profitability).
57. An effective BMA contains a through-the-cycle view of the sustainability of the business
model in its current state and against a projected view of the bank’s funding structure, return
on equity (ROE), capital supply, and capital demand, the effect this has on the product, service
pricing, and resource requirements. The business planning should be clear, aligned, and
158

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 11 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
integrated with the bank’s strategy, governance, risk-appetite statement, recovery plans,
internal controls, stress tests, and internal reporting (MIS).
58. Each bank should elaborate on the linkage and consistency between their strategic
decisions, risk appetite, and the resources allocated for achieving those strategies. The bank
should articulate the frequency of monitoring and quantifying changes in its financial
projections (e.g. balance sheet, profit and loss, and concentrations) regularly to verify that they
are consistent with the business model, risk appetite, and the achievement of the bank’s
strategic goals.
59. An effective BMA enables banks to identify vulnerabilities at an early stage and assess
their ability to adapt to changes in their specific operating environment therefore helps to
promote the safety and soundness of banks. A well-designed and comprehensive BMA
approach provides banks with the basis to understand, analyse, assess the sustainability of
their business models, enhance proactive, forward-looking operations, and strategy
evaluation.
60. Each bank’s business model should be based on analyses and realistic assumptions
(stress tests, scenario analyses, and driver analyses, etc.) about the effect of strategic choices
on financial and economic outcomes of operations performed. This will enable the bank and
the Central Bank to understand the nature of the business model and the inherent risks. Each
bank should perform an analysis that involves identifying, challenging the dependency of
strategies on uncontrollable external factors, and assumptions (e.g. market interest rates,
demand growth in the target customer markets, degree of competition in the markets, cost of
entry, and compliance costs).
61. An effective BMA addresses the banks’ ability to produce aggregate financial data
across the banking group as a whole, and the bank solo level, for each of its main business
units and business lines. Moreover, to make the best use of this data and transform it into
relevant inputs, banks need to develop and use analytical tools including stress tests, peer
group assessments, profitability forecasts and analysis, and scenario analyses.
62. The documentation provided in support of the business model should contain an
overview of the business activities of the bank and anoverview of the structure/organisational
details of the bank. For example a brief description of the business model, present financial
condition, any expected changes in the present business model, the expected future business
environment, business plans, and the projected financial condition for the following year.
63. The following additional information and documentation should be referenced (if not
part of) the ICAAP report:
(i) Bank’s strategic plan(s) with current-year, forward-looking forecasts, and
underlying economic assumptions;
(ii) Financial reporting (e.g. profit and loss (P&L), and balance sheet), covering the
most recent period and the whole (forward-looking) ICAAP reporting period;
(iii) Internal reporting (e.g. management information, capital reporting, liquidity
reporting, and internal risk reporting);
(iv) Recovery plans, including the results of resolvability assessment, if any, and
identification of critical functions;
(v) Third-party reports (e.g. audit reports, and reports by equity/credit analysts),
states their main concerns and issues;
159