[Document: PII.pdf, Page 1]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 2
149

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 2]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 2 – Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP)
I. Introduction and Purpose
1. All banks licensed by the Central Bank of the UAE must ensure that Pillar 1 risks -
credit, market, and operational risk - are mitigated by capital, in compliance with the capital
adequacy framework articulated in the document Central Bank “Regulations re Capital
Adequacy” issued under Notice 60/2017 and the supporting capital standards and guidance,
articulated in the document Central Bank “Standards and Guidance re Capital Adequacy of
Banks in the UAE”. Incompliance with the Standards, each bank is required to quantify all risks
that are not covered, or not sufficiently covered by Pillar 1 capital, and determine the additional
capital required to mitigate these risks. The capital required to cover these risks is referred to
as Pillar 2 capital.
2. Each bank is required to have a process to assess its overall capital adequacy as a
function of its risk profile and its strategy. Each bank is required to maintain appropriate capital
levels in accordance with the Central Bank Standards on Pillar 2 capital. This process is termed
the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).
3. As part of the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP), the Central Bank
analyses the capitalisation levels of banks among other information, referring to the results of
the ICAAP with regard to the internal view of capital adequacy. If the evaluation concludes that
the capital levels of the individual bank are not satisfactory, the Central Bank may require a
bank to meet an adjusted Minimum Capital Adequacy ratio accordingly.
4. Consequently, Pillar 2 is both a bank internal process reported under the ICAAP, and
the evaluation of each bank’s compete capital adequacy includes the ICAAP in its regulatory
process - the SREP. First, it is the responsibility of each bank to ensure that its ICAAP is
comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale, and complexity of its activities. Each
bank bears the responsibility for the appropriate identification, estimation, and reporting of
risks, and the corresponding the calibration of capital necessary to mitigate these risks.
Second, the ICAAP is a critical reference for supervision and for the supervisory dialogue
between banks and Central Bank.
Purpose
5. This Guidance presents minimum expected practices to be considered by each bank
in order to undertake their ICAAP, covering the process, content, outcome, and usage. It
clarifies the application of the Central Bank’s expectations regarding the requirements of the
Central Bank ICAAP Standards. Note, that the Central Bank plans to issue separately detailed
requirements relating to the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP).
6. It also intends to support each bank in the identification, measurement, reporting, and
mitigation of Pillar 2 risks. This Guidance does not prescribe specific methodologies but rather,
it provides a framework, within which a bank should elaborate research, analyse, and draw
conclusions relevant to the risk profiles of their books. Each bank remains fully responsible for
the methodology and process supporting the ICAAP.
7. All methodologies employed by a bank for its ICAAP should be relevant to its business
model, risk profile, to the geographies of its exposures, and, in particular, to the features of the
UAE economy. The methodologies and processes employed by the bank in its ICAAP should
be fully documented, transparent and replicable. Each bank should be in a position to justify
their decisions and modelling choices with historical data and benchmarking across a range of
practices, which will be subject to supervisory scrutiny. Models employed for the measurement
150

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 3]
CBUAE Classification: Public
of Pillar 2 risks should comply with the Central Bank Model Management Standards and
Guidance.
8. The Central Bank may apply proportionality for smaller and less complex banks when
evaluating the ICAAP. This does not mean that smaller or less complex banks are exempted
from the reporting requirements or from undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the risks
they face. Smaller banks have to perform the whole ICAAP and address the full reporting
scope. In cases where a bank’s capabilities lead them to use simpler methodologies, a more
conservative capital treatment may be appropriate. However, the Central Bank expects a more
sophisticated risk management approach from large banks and/ or banks with complex risk
profiles in the assessment of their Pillar 2 risks.
9. For the licensed operations of foreign banks in the UAE, when this document refers to
the bank’s Board, it should be comprehended as the Managing Director and/ or the highest
committee in the UAE operations of the bank in which the Managing Director has to be the
Chairman.
10. This Guidance serves several purposes. It
(i) Explains in more detail the Central Bank’s expectations on fulfilling the
requirements of the ICAAP Capital Standards, in particular, related to the ICAAP
(process) at each bank and certain aspects of the content of the ICAAP report;
(ii) Covers expectations on some processual elements of the ICAAP, such as an
appropriate approval process of the ICAAP report and its submission timelines;
and
(iii) Formulates expectations about additional sections of the ICAAP report (e.g.
related to internal audit findings and changes compared to the previous ICAAP
report).
II. ICAAP Executive Summary
11. It is important that the executive summary of the ICAAP document produced by each
bank should explain the views of Senior Management and the Board on the suitability of the
bank’s capital to cover the risks faced by the bank in light of its risk profile, its risk appetite and
its future business plans. These views must be supported by key quantitative results including
the current and expected capital position of the bank under various economic conditions
including stressed circumstances. It should also provide a clear analysis of the drivers of
capital consumption, including Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks and stress testing. The conclusion
should be unambiguous, forward-looking and consider the uncertainty of the business and
economic conditions.
12. More specifically, the executive summary of the ICAAP report should contain the
following elements:
(i) The main findings of the ICAAP;
(ii) A brief description of the ICAAP governance framework covering the
stakeholders, the assessment process, the challenging process and the
approval process;
(iii) A brief presentation of the bank’s structure, subsidiaries, businesses, material
risks, risk appetite, and risk mitigating actions, where applicable;
(iv) A description of the current capital position of the bank showing the allocation of
capital per risk type, covering Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks;
(v) Each bank should complete the ICAAP Executive Summary Table (Table 3) as
151

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 4]
CBUAE Classification: Public
indicated in Appendix 2 of this document;
(vi) A description of the current capital composition of the bank against minimum
capital requirements covering at least CET1, AT1, and Tier 2 capital ratios;
(vii) A forward-looking analysis of the budgeted capital position of the bank, based
on the bank’s expected business plan over the next three (3) years, reflecting
the current, and expected economic conditions. This needs to cover expected
dividend distribution;
(viii) An analysis of the capital position and capital ratios under several stress
scenarios, the analysis of the stress scenarios should include the intended risk
mitigation actions;
(ix) An assessment of the adequacy of the bank’s risk management processes
including critical judgment on the areas that need improvement; and
(x) A conclusion of the ICAAP addressing the suitability of the capital to cover the
bank’scurrent and expected risks.
13. Appendix 3.4 lists further information and documentation that is required to accompany
a bank’s ICAAP report.
III. ICAAP Governance
14. Given the critical and major role of the ICAAP in banks’ sustainability and strategy, the
Board of Directors is required to approve the ICAAP. The ICAAP should be subject to an
effective decision-making process, by which the assumptions, projections, and conclusions
are thoroughly discussed, analysed, and challenged at several levels in the organisation
including (i) the relevant committees of subject matter experts, (ii) Senior Management, and
(iii) the Board.
15. The Board has ultimate ownership and responsibility of the ICAAP. It is required to
approve an ICAAP on a yearly basis. The Board is also expected to approve the ICAAP
governance framework with a clear and transparent assignment of responsibilities, adhering
to the segregation of functions, as described in Refer to Appendix 3.1. The governance
framework should ensure that the ICAAP is an integral part of the bank’s management process
and decision-making. The ICAAP governance framework should include a clear approach to
the regular internal review and validation by the appropriate functions of the bank.
16. The policy framework should be approved by the Board. Senior Management has to
implement the framework via effective procedures and systems. The framework must include
measures reflected in the ICAAP report applied in day-to-day business and supported by
suitable MIS at appropriate frequencies. A key aspect of this requirement is the “Use Test”
principle covered in the next section. The risk framework has to be applied across the
organisation.
IV. ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test
Methodology
17. The ICAAP is an ongoing process. On an annual basis, every bank is required to
submit a document outlining the outcome of the ICAAP to the Central Bank, usually referred
to as its ICAAP document or report. The ICAAP supplements the Pillar 1 minimum regulatory
capital requirements by (i) identifying risks that are not addressed or not fully addressed
through Pillar 1 regulations, referred to as Pillar 2 risks, and (ii) determining a level of capital
commensurate with the level of risk. The Central Bank requires each bank to adopt a Pillar 1
152

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 5]
CBUAE Classification: Public
plus approach. According to this, the bank’s total capital requirements include the minimum
Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirements, plus the capital required to cover Pillar 2 risks. As a
result, the ICAAP should result in additional capital requirements specific to each bank’s
business model.
18. Board and Senior Management are responsible to deliver a comprehensive, effective,
and accurate assessment of capital adequacy. Each bank is consequently required to conduct
an ICAAP supported by appropriate methods and procedures to ensure that adequate capital
covers all material risks. Each bank should adopt progressively more sophisticated
approaches in measuring risks to keep up with the business model evolvement, the risk profile,
size of the bank, and appropriate market practice. The key objective is for each bank to be
transparent and demonstrate the relevance of the approach taken in relation to the nature of
their activities and risk profile to the Board and the Central Bank.
19. The frequency of reporting to the Board is expected to be at least quarterly, but,
depending on the size, complexity, business model, risk types of the institution, and the market
environment, reporting might need to be more frequent to ensure timely management actions.
The quarterly reporting should comprise the internal calculation of the capital ratios (Pillar 1
and Pillar 2 under business-as-usual (BAU) and under stress scenarios), which includes
determining the surplus/ shortfall of capital. Stress scenarios and internal forecasts only need
to be updated on a quarterly basis, if required. Nevertheless, the ICAAP reporting to the
Central Bank remains an annual exercise. However, if the quarterly results deviate significantly
compared to the results of the ICAAP report as submitted to the Central Bank, then the bank
should inform the Central Bank of the updated capital plan (including reasons for the
deviations, capital ratios and mitigation actions).
20. The ICAAP should be supported by robust methodologies and data. All models used
directly or indirectly in the ICAAP should follow the bank’s model management framework, in
compliance with the Central Bank Standards and Guidance. The data employed in the ICAAP
should be comprehensive, reliable, follow rigorous quality checks, and control mechanisms.
Scope
21. Each bank is expected to ensure the effectiveness and consistency of the ICAAP at
each level, with a special focus on the group level for local banks. The ICAAP of these banks
is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand-alone basis, at regulatory
consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should primarily evaluate the
capital requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory
consolidation. However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the
group structure of the bank. The group structure must be analysed from different perspectives.
To be able to effectively assess and maintain capital adequacy across entities, strategies, risk
management processes, decision-making, methodologies, and assumptions applied should
be coherent across the entire group. Identified additional risks may increase the capital
requirement on group level accordingly.
22. Capital transferability within the group should be assessed conservatively and
cautiously, which should be considered in the ICAAP. Each bank should have a process to
ensure capital transferability that addresses any restrictions on the management's ability to
transfer or allocate capital into or out of the bank's subsidiaries (for example contractual,
commercial, regulatory, or statutory/legal restrictions that may apply). The capital allocation or
distribution and the approval process between the bank’s holding company (group/parent) and
the subsidiaries in the banking group should be well defined. The analysis should also consider
risks arising from structural foreign currency positions relating to assets, liabilities, and equity.
23. A bank that has domestic or foreign subsidiaries or branches is expected to evaluate
the difference between the ICAAP determined for the bank (including its subsidiaries) and the
153

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 6]
CBUAE Classification: Public
ICAAP at solo level (without subsidiaries). Therefore, the bank should identify any potential
and additional risks both at consolidated group level and at solo bank level. The analysis
should also address international operations that have jurisdictional capital requirements or
restrictions.
24. Additional risks may also arise from entities that are not consolidated under Pillar 1,
e.g. investments in commercial subsidiaries, including Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV), and
insurance companies. Each bank should evaluate whether the required Pillar 1 capital
adequately covers all risks arising from those entities. The evaluation should consider all risk
types, including credit risk, reputational risk, and step-in risk, etc. The analysis should not be
limited to branches and subsidiaries but should also consider affiliates, if material. Such
analysis should not be limited to local banks only, also foreign banks operating in the UAE
should identify and analyse all their dependencies on parent companies through centralised
risk management/ shared services etc.
Use Test
25. The ICAAP and the bank’s business strategy form a feedback process. While the
ICAAP has to reflect the bank’s business strategy, and business decisions. The bank should