
constituents of the portfolio by calculating the proportion of the portfolio’s total credit exposure
arising from credit exposure to counterparties in each geographic region.
Please refer to Question 15 of the FAQs below for further guidance and examples of
countercyclical buffers.
5

[Document: document.pdf, Page 8]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3. Regulatory adjustments
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
21. Intangible assets typically do not generate any cash flows and hence their value, when a
bank is in need of immediate additional capital to absorb losses, is uncertain. For this reason, all
intangible assets are deducted from CET1 (5.1.8.1).
22. From regulatory perspective, goodwill and intangible assets have the same meaning as
under IFRS.
23. Capitalized software costs that is not “integral to hardware” is to be treated as an intangible
asset and software that is “integral to hardware” is to be treated as property, plant and equipment
(i.e. as a fixed asset).
24. The amount of intangible assets to be deducted should be net of any associated deferred
tax liability (DTL) that would be extinguished if the asset became impaired or derecognised under
the applicable accounting standards.
25. Goodwill and intangible assets that are deducted from CET1, they are excluded from the
calculation of RWA for credit risk exposure value.
Deferred Tax Assets
26. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) typically arise when a bank:
 suffers a net loss in a financial year and is permitted to carry forward this loss to offset
future profits when calculating its tax bill (net losses carried forward)
 has to reduce the value of an asset on the balance sheet, but this 'loss in value' is not
recognised by the tax authorities until a future period (temporary timing difference)
27. DTAs arising from net losses carried forward have to be deducted in full from a bank's
CET1 (5.1.8.2). This recognises that their value can only be derived through the existence of
future taxable income. On the other hand, a DTA relying on future profitability and arising from
temporary timing differences is subject to the 'threshold deduction rule' (5.1.9.2).
4. Threshold Deduction
28. The purpose of calculating the threshold is to limit the significant investments in the
common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions (banks, insurance and other financial
entities) and deferred tax assets (arising from temporary differences) to 15% of the CET1 after all
deduction (Deduction includes regulatory deductions and the amount of significant investments
in the common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions and deferred tax assets in full).
29. Therefore, significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial
institutions and deferred tax assets may receive limited recognition of 10% CET1 individually (CET
after regulatory adjustment outlined in section 3 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard).
30. The amount that is recognised will receive risk weight of 250% and the remaining amount
will be deducted. See Appendix 5 for example.
6

[Document: document.pdf, Page 9]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Significant investment in commercial entities
31. For purposes of this section, 'significant investments' in a commercial entity is defined as
any investment in the capital instruments of a commercial entity by a bank which is equivalent to
or more than 10% of CET 1 of the bank (after application of regulatory and threshold deduction).
See Appendix 3 for an example.
6. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: When will the Standards, Guidance and Template with regards to Solo reporting be
issued by the Central Bank?
The Central Bank will issue all related material regarding Solo reporting during 2020. Formal
communication will be issued in advance.
Question 2: What is meant by the book value of an investment?
The book value of an investment shall be in accordance with the applicable accounting framework
(IFRS). This valuation must be accepted by an external auditor.
Question 3: Are capital shortfalls of non-consolidated insurance companies to be deducted from
CET1?
Yes, any capital shortfall on a company has to be deducted.
Question 4: If the Bank meets minimum CET1 ratios can the excess CET1 also be counted to meet
AT1 and Total CAR?
Yes.
Question 5: Please clarify whether minority interest related to any other regulated financial entity
(which is not a bank) should be included or not.
Only minority interest of the subsidiary that are subject to the same minimum prudential standards
and level of supervision as a bank be eligible for inclusion in the capital.
Question 6: Is the bank able to include the profit & loss in the year-end CAR calculation before the
issuance of the audited financial statements?
Bank may include interim profit/ yearend profit in CET1 capital only if reviewed or audited by
external auditors. Furthermore, the expected dividend should be deducted in Q4.
Question 7: Is subordinated Debt currently considered Tier 2 as per Basel III, hence no
amortization is required?
Grandfathering rule plus amortization in last 5 years - refer to Standards for Capital Adequacy of
banks in UAE, Tier Capital Supply Standard- paragraph 27 (iv)(b) . Reference should also be
made to the Tier Capital Instruments Standards.
Question 8: Do dividends need to be deducted from CET1 after the proposal from the Board or
after Central Bank approval or after approval from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting?
Please refer to Question 6
7

[Document: document.pdf, Page 10]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 9: How do you treat goodwill and intangible assets arising on an insurance subsidiary?
Should it be considered since the standards mentions insurance subsidiaries are to be completely
deconsolidated and hence there will be no goodwill?
Goodwill and other intangible must be deducted in the calculation of CET1. In particular deduction is also
applied to any goodwill included in the valuation of significant investments in the capital of banking, financial
and insurance entities that are outside the scope of consolidation.
Question 10: Subsidiaries which are used for providing manpower services at cost, should these
be classified as commercial entities or financial entities?
A non-financial sector entity is an entity that is not:
a) a financial sector entity; or
b) a direct extension of banking; or
c) ancillary to banking; or
d) leasing, factoring, the management of unit trusts, the management of data processing
services or any other similar services"
Question 11: Obtain an understanding to the timeline by when the Central Bank may advise specific
Banks of specific countercyclical buffers?
The underlying process for the implementation of countercyclical buffers will be set and
communicated during 2018.
Question 12: Criterion 4 for Additional Tier 1 capital. Can the Central Bank give additional guidance
on what will be considered to be an incentive to redeem?
The following list provides some examples of what would be considered to be an incentive to
redeem:
A call option combined with an increase in the credit spread of the instrument if the call is not
exercised.
A call option combined with a requirement or an investor option to convert the instrument into
shares if the call is not exercised.
A call option combined with a change in reference rate where the credit spread over the second
reference rate is greater than the initial payment rate less the swap rate (ie the fixed rate paid to
the call date to receive the second reference rate). For example, if the initial reference rate is
0.9%, the credit spread over the initial reference rate is 2% (ie the initial payment rate is 2.9%),
and the swap rate to the call date is 1.2%, a credit spread over the second reference rate greater
than 1.7% (2.9-1.2%) would be considered an incentive to redeem.
Conversion from a fixed rate to a floating rate (or vice versa) in combination with a call option
without any increase in credit spread will not in itself be viewed as an incentive to redeem.
However, as required by criteria 5, the bank must not do anything that creates an expectation that
the call will be exercised.
The above is not an exhaustive list of what is considered an incentive to redeem and so banks
should seek guidance from Central Bank on specific features and instruments. Banks must not
expect Central Bank to approve the exercise of a call option for the purpose of satisfying investor
expectations that a call will be exercised.
8