[Document: PII.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
into risk, loss, and capital figures.
Use Test
120. Stress tests should support decision-making throughout the bank effectively. Stress
tests should be embedded in banks’ business decision-making and risk management process
at several levels of the organisation. Senior Management and the Board should lead and
approve all assumptions, the methodology framework and authorise the use of stress test
results.
121. Stress tests do not stop with the production of results. Risk mitigations should always
be considered in light of the stress severity and likelihood. If no action is deemed necessary,
this should be documented and clearly justified.
Reverse Stress Test
122. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests. Reverse stress tests start with the identification of a pre-defined outcome where the
bank’s business model becomes non-viable (e.g. through insolvency), or it breaches
supervisory compliance minima, e.g. by breaching minimum capital requirements (i.e. the bank
will breach the regulatory capital buffer and minimum capital requirements). The next step is
to assess which scenarios and shocks lead to that identified outcome. Finally, the objective is
to assess whether the likelihood of occurrence is realistic and the impact warrants mitigating
actions. If a bank considers mitigation strategies, e.g. hedging strategies, the bank should
consider if such strategies would be viable. For example, a market that is stressed at a financial
system level may be characterised by a lack of market liquidity and increased counterparty
credit risk.
123. Effective reverse stress testing is a challenging exercise that requires the involvement
of all material risk areas across the bank’s subject matter experts, Senior Management, and
the Board.
124. Each bank should conduct a reverse stress test at least once a year. A well-designed
reverse stress test should also include enough diagnostic information to allow the identification
of the sources of potential failure. This enables proactive risk management actions and
implementation of an appropriate strategy for refined risk monitoring, prevention, and
mitigation. The reverse stress test requires each bank to consider scenarios beyond normal
business forecasts and aids identification of events linked to contagion with potential systemic
implications. Reverse stress testing has important quantitative and qualitative uses, through
informing Senior Management of vulnerabilities, and supporting measures to avoid them.
(Please refer to Appendix 3.3).
VIII. ICAAP Submission and Approval
Submission of the ICAAP report
125. The annual ICAAP report should be submitted to the Central Bank on or before the
submission dates addressed in Table 1.
126. All documents have to be submitted to the respective Central Bank reviewer by
softcopy (submitted in word or pdf format), sending a copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
127. The submission dates below as per Notice 2940/2022 differentiate between (i) national
banks and foreign bank and (ii) size and importance of the banks: (Table 1)
Table 1 - Submission date for ICAAP Report
169

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Banks Report for Report for FY 2023
FY 2022 onwards
Large banks: FAB, ENBD, ADCB, DIB, Mashreq, ADIB, CBD 15/03/2022 01/03
Other local banks and HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank,
31/03/2022 31/03
Citibank, Arab Bank, and Bank of Baroda
Other Foreign Banks 15/04/2022 15/04
Approval of the ICAAP report:
128. The ICAAP report should be approved by:
(i) Senior Management (including the CRO): The bank should use Appendix 1 –
ICAAP – Mandatory disclosure form (Table 2) and include it as an attachment to
the ICAAP report;
(ii) Board approval: For all local banks, the ICAAP document must be approved by
the Board or Board risk committee, and Senior Management prior to submission
to the Central Bank. The meeting minutes of the Board of Directors meeting
should state the approval of the ICAAP document and challenges that have
taken place; and
(iii) For foreign branches, the ICAAP document should be approved by (a) the
managing director and/ or relevant highest committee of the bank in the UAE,
and by (b) their head office, stating that the ICAAP assumptions and forecasts
are in line with the group’s assumptions, forecasts, and that the group’s Board
approves/ endorse the results of the ICAAP.
IX. Internal Control Review
129. The bank’s internal control structure is essential to the capital assessment process.
Effective control of the internal capital adequacy assessment process should include an
independent review and the involvement of both internal audit and external audit (refer to
Appendix 3.1). Senior Management has a responsibility to ensure that the bank establishes a
system for assessing the full scope of its risks, develops a system to relate risk to the bank’s
capital level, and establishes a method for monitoring compliance with internal policies.
130. Internal Audit should perform an audit on the bank’s ICAAP report annually. The report
has to be submitted no later than three (3) months after the submission of the ICAAP report to
the bank’s reviewer and in copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
131. Internal control functions should perform regular reviews of the risk management
process to make sure its coherence, validity, and rationality. The review of the ICAAP should
cover the following:
(i) Ensuring that the ICAAP is complete and suitable as of the bank’s context ,
operational conditions, the reliability of controls behind it;
(ii) The process of identifying all material risks;
(iii) Efficiency of the information systems that support the ICAAP;
170

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iv) Ensuring that the measurement methodologies in use are suitable to support the
ICAAP valuation,
(v) Ensuring the accuracy, and comprehensive of the data input to the ICAAP;
(vi) Rational behind the ICAAP output and assumptions in use;
(vii) Rational and suitability of stress tests and analysis of assumptions;
(viii) Consolidation of the ICAAP outcomes with the risk management (e.g., limit
setting and monitoring); and
(ix) Rational of the capitalplan and internal capital targets.
132. In addition, the review should cover the integrity and validity of regulatory data
submitted to the Central Bank during the course of the year relating to Pillar 1 capital
requirements, which should address, but not be limited to the following:
(i) Appropriate classification of risk-weighted assets (RWA);
(ii) Appropriate inclusion of the off-balance sheet values and the application of credit
conversion factors (CCF); and
(iii) Appropriate credit risk mitigation (CRM) methodology application and values.
133. The role and validity of internal control functions are also important and should be
verified with regard to other topics. For example:
(i) All risk quantification methodologies and models must be subject to independent
validation (internal/ external); and
(ii) Internal Audit should perform an independent review of the bank’s capital
framework implementation every year in accordance with the Capital Standards.
If the Central Bank is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by the
bank’sInternal Audit function, the Central Bank may require an external review.
X. Frequently-Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: What defines independent validation?
Answer: Independent validation can be performed by an independent function of the bank. However, in
some instances an external validation/ review is required. For large banks, external validations are
strongly encouraged, if not explicitly required.
Question 2: What are sustainable business model criteria?
Answer: Sustainable business models may be defined in different ways. For the purpose of this
guidance, a bank will be considered to have a sustainable business model if it meets all the following
criteria:
(i) The bank generates strong and stable returns, which are acceptable given its
risk appetite and funding structure;
(ii) The bank does not have any material asset concentrations or unsustainable
concentrated sources of income;
171

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 24]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The bank has a strong competitive position in its chosen markets and its strategy
is likely to reinforce this strength;
(iv) The bank’s forecasts are based on plausible assumptions about the future
business environment; and
(v) The bank’s strategic plans are appropriate given the current business model and
management’s execution capabilities.
Question 3: What is the definition of model?
Answer: A quantitative method, system, or approach that applies statistical, economic, financial, or
mathematical theories, techniques, and assumptions to process input data into quantitative estimates.
Question 4: Who should be the owner of ICAAP, Finance or Risk Management?
Answer: Multiple committees and working groups have to be involved in the ICAAP. However, Risk
Management should have the ultimate responsibility for the final ICAAP outcome report, the ICAAP
being in substance a risk evaluation process. The Board must approve the ICAAP, its outcomes, and
the proposed mitigation actions.
Question 5: The bank uses multi-period ST scenarios over three years. Which reporting year
(Y1/2/3) shall be reported in the Pillar 2 template in Appendix 2 – ICAAP: Executive summary
table (Table 3)?
Answer: Banks using multi-period stress scenarios should include the most severe period of the most
severe stress test results (reverse stress scenarios not considered). All other banks that perform a
simpler point in time or 1-period stress scenario should include the most severe ST results (reverse
stress scenarios not considered). In addition, the evaluation of Pillar 2 risks and stress test impact as of
the reportingdate is mandatory for all banks.
Question 6: Does the bank have to present the capital contingency plan as part of ICAAP report?,
If the bank plans to inject capital, is it required to have two capital plans, one with and a second
plan without capital injection?
Answer:
(i) The bank must have a Board-approved capital contingency policy. The actual
capital contingency plan as a response to the ICAAP results has to be in line
with the capital contingency policy and the ICAAP report should contain at least
an overview of the capital contingency plan.
(ii) If the bank plan to change its capital base, the bank should have one capital
plan, which reflects the capital injections (and reflects the source of injection).
Injections can be considered if approved by Senior Management, if part of the
official bank’s capital plan and if the Central Bank is informed on the planned
capital injections. A stress test scenario has to show the impact if the injections
do not materialise.
Question 7: What is the ICAAP submission timeframe and can an extension be granted?
Answer: The ICAAP submission should comply with the schedule specified in Section VIII - ICAAP
Submission and Approval. An extension of the ICAAP report submission date will only be granted in
exceptional cases, by the bank’s Central Bank reviewer.
Question 8: Can banks implement the IRB methodology in full (i.e. A-IRB) while reporting credit
172

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 25]
CBUAE Classification: Public
risk under the ICAAP, and is it mandatory?
Answer: The bank should apply whichever approach is deemed appropriate for their size and complexity,
as the ICAAP is an internal process. The evaluation of whether the Pillar 1 capital is adequate for the
bank's risk is mandatory. The F-IRB approach is an accepted approach. With the implementation of
IFRS9 banks have a PD for every exposure, which may be used to calculate the F-IRB capital. It is,
however, not mandatory to fully implement the F-IRB approach. Comparing regulatory capital
requirements with those determined using the F-IRB does indicate to what extent regulatory Pillar 1
capital requirements may be insufficient. The comparison between the F-IRB approach and the
regulatory standardised approach for credit risk has to be performed on an asset class level and the
greater capital requirement should be applied in the ICAAP.
The F-IRB should follow the floor on the PD of 0.03% and apply a fixed 45% LGD. The bank may
consider certain eligible collateral to reduce the LGD accordingly. The bank shall not use own
estimations of the LGD under the F-IRB.
Question 9: Is it required to calculate a capital charge against the financial risks from climate
change in the ICAAP? Is any calculation methodology prescribed for this?
Answer: The bank should understand risks related to climate change and their impact on the
sustainability of the bank and the risks of its business strategy. Banks should develop adequate
methodologies to quantify the risk with models sophistication depending on size and business model.
Stress tests and scenario analysis should be explored. Banks should consider assessing their green
asset ratio (GAR) which measures a bank's “green assets” as a share of its total assets as an initial tool.
The risk identification process should determine whether the risk arising from climate change is a
material capital risk for the bank.
Question 10: How commercial / non-commercial subsidiaries have be treated as part of the
ICAAP exercise? And how to treat investments in insurance subsidiaries?