[Document: document.pdf, Page 106]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The Central Bank sets out a minimum capital standard to cover the risk of equity positions
held in the trading book. It applies to long and short positions in all instruments that exhibit
behavior similar to equities, with the exception of non-convertible preference shares, which fall
under interest rate risk requirements.
1. Capital Charges for Equity Risk
To calculate the minimum capital charge for equity risk, you must calculate two separate
charges:
 A general market risk charge of 8% is applied to the net overall position.
 A specific risk charge of 8% is applied to the gross equity position. After offsetting long
and short positions in the same issue, a bank's gross equity position is the sum of the
absolute values of all long equity positions and all short equity positions.
Since banks may hold equities in different national markets, separate calculations for
general and specific risk must be carried out for each of these markets.
Offsetting
Long and short positions in the same issue can be fully offset, resulting in a single net long or
short position.
2. Treatment of Equity Derivatives
Equity derivatives and off-balance-sheet positions that are affected by changes in equity
prices should be included in the measurement system, with the exception of certain options
positions. This includes futures and swaps on both individual equities and on stock indices.
Positions in these equity derivatives should be converted into notional positions in the
relevant underlying stock or portfolio of stocks. For example, stock index futures should be
reported as the marked-to-market value of the notional underlying equity portfolio. A stock index
future is an agreement to buy or sell a standard quantity of a specific stock index, on a recognised
exchange, at a price agreed between two parties, and with delivery to be executed on a
standardised future settlement date. As it is obviously not feasible to deliver an actual stock index,
stock index futures contracts are settled by cash, calculated with reference to the difference
between the purchase price and the level of the index at settlement.
An equity swap is an agreement between two counterparties to swap the returns on a
stock or a stock index for a stream of payments based on some other form of asset return. Often,
one payment leg is determined by a stock index with the second leg determined by a fixed or
floating rate of interest. Alternatively, the second leg may be determined by some other stock
index (often referred to as a relative performance swap).
Equity swaps should be treated as two notional positions. For example, in an equity swap
where a bank is receiving an amount based on the change in value of one stock index and paying
an amount based on a different index, the bank is regarded as having a long position in the former
index and a short position in the latter index.
In addition to the general market risk requirement, a further capital charge of 2% will be
applied to the net long or short position in index contracts on a diversified portfolio of equities, to
cover factors such as execution risk. As the standard stated.
104

[Document: document.pdf, Page 107]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Refer to the examples below in this section for numerical illustrations
C. Foreign Exchange Rates
Market risk can be influenced by changes in foreign exchange rates, that is, foreign
exchange risk.
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the value of foreign exchange positions may be
adversely affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Foreign exchange positions or
exposures incur only general market risk. The capital charge for foreign exchange risk also include
a charge for positions in gold. For purposes of market risk capital requirements, the Central Bank
takes into account the stable relationship between the AED and the US dollar, with the result that
no capital is charged for open positions in USD. Foreign currency is any currency other than the
bank's reporting currency.
Two steps are required to calculate the overall net open position:
Step 1: Determine the Exposure in Each Currency
The first step is to calculate the bank's open position, long or short in each currency.
The open position in each currency is the sum of:
 the net spot FX position (Includes also all asset items less all liability items, including
accrued interest, denominated in the currency)
 the net forward FX position (Because forward FX rates reflect interest rate differentials,
forward positions are normally valued at current spot exchange rates. The net forward
position in an exposure should consist of all amounts to be received less all amounts to
be paid under forward FX transactions, including currency futures and the principal on
currency swaps not included in the spot position. For banks that base their management
accounting on the net present values (NPVs), the NPV of each position should be used;
discounted using current interest rates and valued at current spot rates)
 guarantees and similar instruments that are certain to be called and are likely to be
irrecoverable.
 net future income and expenses not yet accrued but already fully hedged
 any other item representing a profit or loss in foreign currencies
 the net delta-based equivalent of the total book of foreign currency options
Step 2: Determine the Overall Net Open Position across FX Exposures
The second step in calculating the capital requirement for FX risk is to measure the risk in the
bank's portfolio of foreign currency and gold positions.
You can determine the overall net open position of the portfolio by first converting the exposure
in each foreign currency into the reporting currency at the spot rates. Then, calculate the overall
net position by summing the following:
 the greater of the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions
(excluding the net open position in the US dollar
 Take the larger of the two sums, from the step above, and add the absolute value of the
net position (short or long) in gold.
The capital charge for foreign exchange market risk is 8% of the position resulting from the
105

[Document: document.pdf, Page 108]
CBUAE Classification: Public
calculation above.
Foreign Exchange (FX) Exceptions
The Central Bank of UAE may allow banks to exclude certain FX positions from the capital
charges calculation. Banks have to comply with both the requirement of para 70 of the Market
Risk section of the standards.
Items that are deducted from a bank’s capital when calculating its capital base, such as
investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries, or other long-term participations denominated in
foreign currencies, which are reported in the published accounts at historic cost, do not need to
be included as foreign currency exposures for the foreign exchange risk calculation.
Banks with negligible business in foreign currencies and with no FX positions taken for
their own account may exclude their FX positions if they meet both of the following requirements:
 their FX business (the greater of the sum of their gross long positions and the sum of their
gross short positions) does not exceed 100% of total capital (Tier 1 + Tier 2)
 their overall net open position does not exceed 2% of its total capital
D. Commodity Risk
Market risk can be influenced by changes in commodity prices, that is, commodity risk.
Commodity risk is the risk that on- or off-balance sheet positions will be adversely affected by
movements in commodity prices.
A commodity is defined as a physical product that can be traded on a secondary market,
for example, agricultural products, minerals and precious metals. Gold; however, is covered under
the framework for foreign exchange.
Price risk in commodities is often more complex and volatile than price risk associated
with currencies and interest rates. One reason for this is that commodity prices are influenced by
natural events such as floods and droughts. Changes in supply and demand also have more
dramatic effects on price and volatility, and commodity markets often lack liquidity.
Commodity risk only has a general market risk component because commodity prices are
not influenced by specific risk.
Banks using portfolio strategies involving forward and derivative contracts on commodities
are exposed to a variety of additional risks, such as:
 Basis risk. the risk of changes in the cost of carry for forward positions and options. Cost
of carry is a margin and refers to the net effect of borrowing funds for a certain period of
time and investing them in a financial instrument or commodity for the same period of time.
If the interest earned on the instrument or commodity is greater than the cost of borrowing,
then the cost of carry is positive. The cost of carry can also be negative if the cost of
borrowing is greater than the interest earned.
 Forward gap risk. This is the risk wherein forward prices may change for reasons other
than a change in interest rates.
It is important to note that these risks could well exceed the risk associated with changes
in spot prices of commodities.
106

[Document: document.pdf, Page 109]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. `Treatment of Commodities
Offsetting
When measuring risk in commodities, offsetting between positions is restricted.
 Offsetting is allowed between long and short positions in exactly the same commodity to
calculate open positions.
 In general, offsetting is not allowed between positions in different commodities. However,
the Central Bank may permit offset between different sub-categories of the same
commodity, for example, different categories of crude oil, if:
 they are deliverable against each other
 they are close substitutes for each other, with a minimum correlation of 0.9
between price movements over a period of at least one year
Correlations
Banks using correlations between commodities to offset commodity positions must have
obtained prior approval from the Central bank of UAE.
2. Calculating the Capital Charge
Two alternative approaches for calculating the capital charge for commodities are set out
by the standardised measurement method:
a) Simplified Approach
Under the simplified approach, banks must express each commodity position, spot plus
forward, in terms of the standard unit of measurement (barrels, kilos, grams, and so on).
The capital charge is the sum of two charges:
 15% of the net position in each commodity. All commodity derivatives and off-balance
sheet positions affected by changes in commodity prices should be included.
 3% of the bank's gross commodity positions, that is, the sum of the net long plus net short
positions in each commodity, calculated using the current spot price. This charge
addresses basis risk, interest rate risk and forward gap risk.
b) Maturity Ladder Approach
There are seven steps involved in calculating the capital charge for commodities using the
maturity ladder approach. A separate maturity ladder must be used for each commodity.
The maturity ladder approach
Step 1 Express each commodity position in terms of the standard unit of measurement,
and value in the reporting currency at the current spot price
Step 2 Slot each position into a time band in the maturity ladder according to remaining
maturity
Step 3 Apply a capital charge of 1.5% to the sum of the matched long and short positions
in each time band to capture spread risk. Instead of applying the 1.5% spread risk
charge to the sum of matched long and short positions in each time band, some
countries apply a 3% spread risk charge to the matched position.
Step 4 Apply a capital charge of 0.6% to the residual net position carried forward to the
next relevant time band, multiplied by the number of time bands it is carried.
Step 5 Repeat step 3 and step 4 for each time band.
107

[Document: document.pdf, Page 110]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Step 6 Apply a capital charge of 15% to the overall long or short net open position.
Step 7 Derive the total capital charge by summing the charges for spread risk, for
positions carried forward and for the overall net open position.
3. Treatment of Commodity Derivatives
All commodity derivatives and off-balance sheet positions affected by changes in
commodity prices should be included in the commodities risk measurement framework. This
includes commodity futures, commodity swaps, and options where the “delta plus” method is
used.
E. Options
Treatment of Options
There is a section of the market risk framework devoted to the treatment of options.
The market risk charge for options can be calculated using one of the following methods:
 the simplified approach
 an intermediate approach: the delta-plus method
The more significant a bank's trading activities, the more sophisticated the approach it
should use. The following table shows which methods a bank can use:
Simplified approach Intermediate approach
Delta- plus method
Bank uses √ √
purchased options
only
Bank writes options ₓ √
Banks that solely use purchased options are free to use the simplified approach, whereas
banks that also write options are expected to use the intermediate approach. If a bank has option
positions, but all of those written options are hedged by perfectly matched long positions in exactly
the same options, no capital is required for market risk on those options. However, banks need
to report the hedged options in the respective sheet.
a) Simplified Approach
Option positions and their associated underlying (cash or forward) are 'carved out' from
other risk types in the standardised approach. They are subject to separately calculated capital
charges that incorporate both general market risk and specific risk. These charges are then added
to the capital charges for the relevant risk categories: interest rate risk, equities risk, foreign
exchange risk or commodities risk.
In some cases, such as foreign exchange, it may be unclear which side is the “underlying
security.” In such cases, the asset that would be received if the option were exercised should be
considered as the underlying. In addition, the nominal value should be used for items where the
market value of the underlying instrument could be zero, such as caps and floors, swaptions, or
similar instruments.
108

[Document: document.pdf, Page 111]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The capital charges under the simplified approach are as follows:
Simplified approach : capital charges
Position Treatment
Hedged positions: long cash position in the The capital charge is the market value of the
underlying instrument and long put or short underlying security multiplied by the sum of
cash position in the underlying instrument specific and general market risk charges for
and long call the underlying, less the amount the option is
in-the-money (if any) bounded at zero.
Outright option positions: long call or long The capital charge is the lesser of:
put  The market value of the underlying
security multiplied by the sum of
specific and general market risk
charges for the underlying
 The market value of the option
b) Intermediate Approach
The procedure for general market risk is explained below. The specific risk capital charges
are determined separately by multiplying the delta-equivalent of each option by the specific risk
charges for each risk category.
The delta-plus method
The delta-plus method uses the sensitivity parameters or Greek letters associated with
options to measure their market risk and capital requirements.
Options should be included in market risk calculations for each type of risk as a delta-
weighted position equal to the market value of the underlying multiplied by the delta.
The delta-equivalent position of each option becomes part of the standardised approach,
with the delta-equivalent amount subject to the applicable market risk capital charges. Separate
capital charges are then applied to the gamma and Vega risks of the option positions.
Greek Letters: Five coefficients are used to help explain how option values behave in relation to
changes in market parameters (price of the underlying asset, the strike price, the volatility of the
underlying, the time to maturity and the risk-free interest rate). These are represented by the
Greek letters delta, gamma, Vega, theta and rho, and are referred to as the 'option Greeks'.
 Delta (Δ) measures the rate of change in the value of an option with respect to a change
in the price of the underlying asset.
 Gamma (Γ) measures the rate of change in the delta of an option with respect to a change
in the price of the underlying asset.
 Vega (Λ) measures the rate of change in an option price with respect to a change in market
volatility for the underlying asset price.
109

[Document: document.pdf, Page 112]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Shari’ah Implementation:
Bank that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of Shari’ah
and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Market Risk Standard, shall, for the
purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the relevant risk weighted asset
(RWA) in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner compliant to the Shari’ah.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
IV. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: Are issues rated AA- or better by Supranational issuers qualify for 0% specific
risk charge? For such issues, the Country of Risk = SNAT as classification in Bloomberg
would be considered as Supranational
No, there is no specification to supranational and thereby low risk charge.
Question 2: Please clarify whether futures or options on ETFs and volatility indices such
as VIX are treated as equity index instrument.
Yes, it will be part of equity and reported under equity derivative. Please refer to the Market risk
section of the standards for further guidance.
Question 3: Under the treatment of interest rate derivatives for general market risk, in
reference to table 3, credit derivatives have not been listed. Kindly advise if these products
are excluded from the capital requirement stipulated under general market risk.
Credit derivatives (including CDS and TRS) are subject to the general market risk treatment for
interest rate risk if the instrument involves periodic payments of interest. Credit derivatives are
subject to specific risk capital as described in paragraphs 26 and 27 of the Market Risk section of
the Standards. Note that Table 3 in the text covers only interest rate derivatives, and therefore
credit derivatives should not be included. Credit derivatives must be analysed whether they are
subject to the general market risk treatment for interest rate risk. For example, Credit Default
Swaps are usually not subject to general interest rate risk, whereas Total Return Swaps and credit
linked notes are usually subject to general market risk. Please note, that the analysis to which risk
types a specific instrument type is exposed, must be provided to the Central Bank upon request.
Question 4: Clarity is needed on what constitutes trading book. For example, Investment
Grade bonds classified as AFS, however with no active trading and a holding period of
almost till maturity (e.g. callable, decision to sell closer to maturity) does this need to be
banking book? Similarly, HTM under this description can be either trading or banking
book.
The Market Risk Standard as published does not change the definition of trading book. The
requirements of BCBS 128 paragraphs 685 to 689 have been applied in the text of the Standards.
Please refer to the Market Risk Regulation under Notice 3018/2018 for the full definition of trading
book.
Question 5: For Qualifying category, if the issuer of the security is a rated corporate by
any one of rated agencies i.e. Moody's, S&P, Fitch with investment grade. Should it be
included under Qualifying Category?
110

[Document: document.pdf, Page 113]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Yes, this will fall under qualifying category as long as it rated investment grade by at least two
credit rating agencies.
Question 6: Should general criteria for all investment grade securities other than
Government Issuers be taken under the category of Qualifying?
Yes, these instruments will be classified as qualifying provided in paragraphs 16-19.
Question 7: As per the Standards, "the separate legs of cross-currency swaps or forward
foreign exchange deals are to be treated as notional positions in the relevant instruments
and included in the appropriate calculation for each currency". Under which method these
are required to be included in MR-3 i.e Maturity method or Duration method.
General risk can be computed using Maturity and Duration approach. Paragraph 41 on
"Allowable offsetting of matched positions" of the market risk standard applies to both
approaches and depends on what approach the bank uses for reporting.
Question 8: If the options are hedged, do we need to input the numbers in the template.
If it is fully micro hedged, then Net Forward Purchase (Sales) & Delta weighted positions for
Options will be zero. Refer to VII Appendix: Prudent Valuation Guidance as part of Market risk
standard.
Question 9: Banks have the possibility to include the repo transactions in the trading book
for regulatory capital calculation even though they are accounted in the banking book?
Term trading-related repo-style transactions that meet the requirements for trading-book
treatment may be included in the bank’s trading book for regulatory capital purposes even if a
bank accounts for those transactions in the banking book. If the bank does so, all such repo-style
transactions must be included in the trading book, and both legs of such transactions, either cash
or securities, must be included in the trading book. Regardless of where they are booked, all repo-
style transactions are subject to a credit risk capital requirement under the Central Bank’s
Standards for Credit Risk Capital. The secured part of the exposure is risk weighted based on the
credit rating/type of the issuer the security serving as collateral, and the unsecured part is risk
weighted based on the credit rating/type (bank-sovereign-corporate) of the counterparty. In
addition, how/where the reporting should be under which risk type (e.g. interest rate risk (Specific
and/or General), FX, Equity, etc.) depends on the nature of the cash placement (one ‘leg’) and
that of the security/collateral (other ‘leg’). The two legs are reportable to the relevant market risk
type. For example, if the cash placement is floating rate and denominated in foreign currency it
would be reported under FX. In regards to position risk (interest rate and equity risk types), it
would be under General risk.
Question 10: How do we treat the capital charge when an exposure in the Banking book is
hedged via a derivative in the trading book?
As long as the position got an open leg under one of the two books (i.e. Banking or trading),
applicable capital charge should be taken in place. When a bank hedges a banking book credit
risk exposure using a credit derivative booked in its trading book (i.e. using an internal hedge),
the banking book exposure is not deemed to be hedged for capital purposes unless the bank
purchases from an eligible third party protection provider a credit derivative meeting the
requirements in the Central Bank’s Standards for Credit Risk. Where such third party protection
is purchased and is recognised as a hedge of a banking book exposure for regulatory capital
purposes, neither the internal nor external credit derivative hedge would be included in the trading
book for regulatory capital purposes.
111

[Document: document.pdf, Page 114]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 11: BCBS standards provides banks two options to include large swap books in
the maturity or duration ladder (Convert the payments into their present values or to
calculate the sensitivity of the net present value). It would be useful to clarify which
methods are acceptable.
Currently both methods are acceptable but to move forward with sensitivity or NPV approach, the
bank shall seek Central Bank approval by providing all relevant documents.
Question 12: How to treat Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), PSEs and GREs that
qualify 0% risk weight as per Credit Risk Section of the Standards for the “Qualifying”
criteria of Specific Risk?
All MDBs are considered “qualifying” for this purpose and will receive a RW of 0%.
PSE that meets the conditions to be treated like a sovereign for credit risk can be considered
“government" for specific risk.
Commercial GREs that are treated as corporates for credit risk should also be treated as
corporates for market risk, for consistency.
Question 13: Can the securities issued by local government be reported under
government? If yes, what capital charge will be applied?
Only if they qualify for treatment as “sovereign” under the credit risk framework, a 0% can be
applied.
Question 14: What is meant by 'broadly' in paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Market Risk
Standard. Any threshold for the size of the movement e.g. a negative correlation of more
than 0.6?
No, there is no specific threshold. "Broadly" in this context means "with close approximation," to
allow for minor deviations from perfect correlation. The bank should have a sensible policy to
ensure that objective, which should be subject to supervisory review.
Question 15: What is meant by "long term participation"? What is included in it?
Long-term participations could take a number of forms, but a typical example would be
investments accounted at historical cost (and in this context, denominated in a foreign currency).
Paragraph 65 edited for clear understanding.
Question 16: Do the banks have to meet certain criteria to apply duration or maturity
approach or is the choice of method fully within the bank's discretion?
Maturity approach shall be the initial approach to be used. In case the bank requires to apply
Duration approach, then banks will have to seek Central Bank consent to switch between the
approaches.
Question 17: Under Specific interest rate risk, what will be the treatment for the debt
securities that are denominated and funded in domestic currency or foreign currency?
The preferential treatment/national discretion will be applicable to GCC sovereign’s papers
denominated and funded in local currency. In addition, exposures to the Federal Government and
Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight, if such exposures are denominated and funded in
AED or USD for a transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard.
After the transition period, 0% risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated
and funded in AED. Elsewise (if denominated and funded in foreign currency and if the debt
security is not GCC sovereign paper) rating and residual maturity shall be applied.
Question 18: Interest Rate Risk: How are derivatives treated from a market risk and credit
risk perspective that a foreign branch has with its head office and other branches of the
112

[Document: document.pdf, Page 115]
CBUAE Classification: Public
group? Are all the derivative transactions under the umbrella of the group, can such
derivatives be excluded from the capital charge?
• Exemption is not eligible; all derivatives are to be included under credit and market risk.
• If the branch and the head office both have the same ISDA contract, netting and collateral
will not be eligible. However, if the ISDA contract contains only the deals from the branch,
then netting and collateral would be eligible.
• From Market risk perspective, if the bank's transactions are fully hedged, i.e. certain
derivatives with UAE customers are fully hedged back to back with the head office, then the
bank can offset for example the general and specific interest rate risks (based on
paragraphs 41 to 45). However, counterparty credit risk is still to be considered.
Question 19: Treatment of Options: Do banks have to meet certain criteria to apply the
simplified approach or the delta plus method? Or is the choice of method fully within
bank's discretion?
As per Para 82 (Standard), two alternative approaches apply to options. Banks that only
purchase options (rather than written options) can choose to use a simplified approach. Unless
all written option positions (under the simplified approach) are hedged by perfectly matched long
positions in exactly the same options, in which case no capital charge for market risk is
required. Banks with more complex option positions that also write options must use the delta-
plus approach rather than the simplified approach.
Question 20: Specific Interest Rate Risk: When the securities are not externally credit
rated, does the Central Bank have a list of specific treatment for issuers/ issues that are
unrated?
The Central Bank does not have a discretionary list of customers that do receive a special
treatment if an external rating is not available.
 The standard is exhaustive for all special treatments. For example: UAE and GCC
sovereign exposure that are funded and denominated in the domestic currency receive
0% RW (independent of the external rating of that sovereign)
 Exposures to the Federal Government and Emirates Government receive 0% risk weight,
if such exposures are denominated and funded in AED or USD for a transition period of
7 years from the date of implementation of this Standard. After the transition period, 0%
risk weights are only applied to exposures that are denominated and funded in AED.
Question 21: If a bank has exposure in equity investments in the trading book, how will
this exposure be treated under Market risk?
Risk-weighted assets for equity exposures arising from bank investments in funds that are held
in the trading book are subject to the market risk capital rules. Equity investments in funds will
be allocated to the trading book if the bank is able to “look through” to the fund’s underlying
assets (i.e. determine capital requirements based on the underlying positions held by the fund),
or where the bank has access both to daily price quotes and to the information contained in the
mandate of the fund. The reporting is based on the underlying positions held by the fund; it
could be covered under different areas of the market risk (e.g. FX, IRR and equity risk).
Question 22: As per paragraph 21 of the Market Risk Standard, it is mentioned that a
securitisation exposure subject to a risk weight of 1250% under the Central Bank
requirements (and therefore to a 100% specific risk charge under this Standard) may be
excluded from the calculation of capital for general market risk. Should the cap for the
113

[Document: document.pdf, Page 116]
CBUAE Classification: Public
UAE be 1250% or 952% as mentioned in paragraph 5 of the Introduction of the
standards?
Yes, the RW has to be capped at 952% as mentioned in the introduction of the standards.
V. Examples
Note that capital charges calculated in all examples below still need to be converted into
risk-weighted assets via Section IV in the Market Risk Standards.
A. Interest rate risk
1. Calculating the General Market risk charge
Calculate the general market risk capital charge for XYZ bank’s interest rate positions using the
maturity method.
Long position in a qualifying bond: Market value AED 13.33m. Residual maturity 8 years & coupon
8%
Long position in a government bond: Market value AED 75m. Residual maturity 2 months &
coupon 7%
Interest rate swap: Notional value AED 150m. Residual life of swap 8 years & bank receives
floating rate interest and pays fixed. Next interest fixing after 9 months
Long position in interest rate government bond future: Contract size AED 50mn.
The treatment of interest rate future positions assume a bank is exposed to a long position in a
6-month interest rate future bought today and settled in two months' time. The long position in
interest rates needs to be slotted into the 6-12 months’ time band because the maturity of the long
position is considered to be eight months. This is because the position is taken on today and will
be settled in two months with a maturity of six months.
Delivery date after 6 months & remaining maturity of the CTD government security 3.5 years.
Cheapest to deliver CTD refers to the underlying instrument that result in the greatest profit or the
least loss when delivered in satisfaction of futures contracts.
Calculating the general market risk capital charge comprises two main steps and a number of
sub-steps.
Step 1: Map each interest rate position
We are using the maturity method to map the positions. None of the bank’s positions have a
coupon of less than 3%, so we will use a ladder of 13 time bands. Each position is mapped to the
appropriate time band according to its residual maturity.
Step 2: calculate the total capital charge
Overall net open position
Zone 1 (months) Zone 2 (years) Zone 3 (years)
Time 0- 1-3 3-6 6-12 1- 2- 3-4 4- 5- 7-10 10- 15- >20
band 1 2 3 5 7 15 20
Weighted +0.15 - +1.05 +1.125 -
position 0.2 5.625
(AED m) +0.5
114

[Document: document.pdf, Page 117]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The net open position is the sum of all the positions across all the time bands. The net open
position is AED 3m short, which leads to a capital charge at 100% of AED 3,000,000.
Calculation:
+75*0.2%=+0.15
-50*0.4%=-0.2
+150*0.7%=+1.05
+50*2.25%=+1.125
-150*3.75%=-5.625
+13.33*3.75%=+0.5
Vertical disallowance
The long position of AED 0.5m is offset against the short position of AED 5.625m as per the
marked area. The matched position is AED 0.5m and the net open position is AED -5.125m.
This leads to a capital charge of 10% of AED 0.5m, or AED 50,000
Zone 1 (months) Zone 2 (years) Zone 3 (years)
Time band 0- 1-3 3-6 6-12 1- 2- 3-4 4- 5- 7-10 10- 15- >20
1 2 3 5 7 15 20
Weighted +0.15 - +1.05 +1.125 -
position 0.2 5.625
(AED m) +0.5
Vertical -
disallowance 5.125
Calculation
Matched position = 0.5
Net open position = -5.625+0.5= -5.125
Horizontal disallowance
The third part of the capital charge is a charge for the horizontal disallowance. There are three
rounds of horizontal offsetting.
In round 1, the horizontal disallowance within each zone is calculated. In this example, charge
applies to zone 1 only because it is the only zone with a long and a short position. (With more
than one position). The short position, -0.2 is offset against the total long position, +1.2. The
matched position is 0.2 and the net open position is +1.
The capital charge for the horizontal disallowance within zone 1 is 40% of AED 0.2m, or AED
80,000
In round 2, calculate the horizontal disallowance between adjacent zones, i.e., between:
Zone 1 and zone 2
Zone 2 and zone 3
In this example, zone 1 and zone 2 both contain long positions, so there is no matched position
and therefore no offsetting between these zones. The long position of 1.125 in zone 2 is offset
against the short position of -5.125 in zone 3. The matched position is 1.125 and the net open
position is -4. The capital charge for the horizontal disallowance between zones 2 and 3 is 40%
of AED 1.125m= AED 450,000.
In round 3, we calculate the horizontal disallowance between zones 1 and 3.
115

[Document: document.pdf, Page 118]
CBUAE Classification: Public
In this example, the long position of 1 in zone 1 is offset against the short position of -4 in zone 3.
The matched position is 1 and the net open position is -3. The capital charge for the horizontal
disallowance between zones 1 and 3 is 100% of AED 1m = AED 1m.
After the three rounds of horizontal offsetting, the total charge for the horizontal disallowance is
AED 80,000 + AED 450,000 + AED 1,000,000 = AED 1,530,000
Having completed the horizontal and vertical offsetting, the remaining overall net open position is
AED 3m, which is equivalent to the overall net open position we calculated across all time bands
when we calculated the first part of the capital charge.
Zone 1 (months) Zone 2 (years) Zone 3 (years)
Time band 0- 1-3 3-6 6-12 1- 2- 3-4 4- 5- 7-10 10- 15- >20
1 2 3 5 7 15 20
Weighted +0.15 - +1.05 +1.125 -
position 0.2 5.625
(AED m) +0.5
Vertical -
disallowance 5.125
Horizontal +1
disallowance
Round 1
Horizontal -4
disallowance
Round 2
Horizontal -3
disallowance
Round 3
We have now calculated the total capital charge for general market risk for this example.
Capital charge AED
1 A charge for the net open position 3,000,000
2 A charge for the vertical disallowance 50,000
3 A charge for horizontal disallowance
Round 1: Charge for the horizontal 80,000
disallowance within each zone
Round 2: Charge for the horizontal 450,000
disallowance between adjacent zones
Round 3: Charge for the horizontal 1,000,000
disallowance between zones 1 and 3 1,530,000
net charge for positions in options 0
Total capital charge 4,580,000
2. Specific Market Risk – Example
Relate to the same example as above.
Given that, the government bonds are AAA-rated and that the qualifying bond is BBB-rated.
The interest rate swap does not incur a specific risk charge. The AAA-rate government bonds
incur a 0% specific risk charge. The qualifying bond has a residual maturity of 8 years and is BBB-
rated, so if has a specific risk charge of 1.6%
The capital charge is 1.6% of AED 13.33m, or AED 213,280.
116

[Document: document.pdf, Page 119]
CBUAE Classification: Public
B. Equity Risk – Calculating the Capital Charge
Bank XYZ has the following positions in its equity portfolio for a particular national market.
Company Position No. of shares Market price Market value
(AED) (AED)
A Corp. Long 10,000 35 350,000
B Corp. Short 20,000 25 500,000
C Corp. Short 5,000 50 250,000
D Corp. Long 15,000 20 300,000
E Corp. Short 2,000 60 120,000
To calculate the general market risk charge, we must first determine the overall net open position.
The sum of the net long positions is AED 650,000 and the sum of the net short positions is AED
870,000. The overall net open position is short AED 220,000.
The capital charge for general market risk is 8% of AED 220,000, or AED 17,600.
Next, we must work out the specific risk charge.
The capital charge for specific risk is 8% of AED 1,520,000 or AED 121,600.
That lead to, overall capital charge for this portfolio is AED 17,600 + AED 121,000, or AED
139,200.
C. FX Risk – calculating the capital charge
Below is an example of calculating the capital charge for FX risk.
A bank has the following positions that have been converted at spot rates into its reporting
currency, United Arab dirhams (AED).
Currency JPY EUR GBP AUD USD Gold
Net position +50 +100 +150 -20 -180 -35
(AEDm)
The higher of the sum of the net long and net short currency positions is AED 300m.
The capital charge is therefore calculated as 8% of AED 300m, plus the net position in gold (AED
35m):
Capital charge = 8% of AED 335m = AED 26.8m
Another example;
A bank has the following positions that have been converted at spot rates into its reporting
currency (AED)
Currency EUR JPY GBP AUD SGD
Net position +150 -100 +75 -30 -15
(AEDm)
The sum of the net long positions is AED 225m and the sum of the net short positions is -AED
145m. The capital charge is calculated as 8% of the higher of these two positions, so the charge
is 8% of AED 225m, or AED 18m.
D. Commodity risk
1. Simplified approach
XYZ bank is exposed to a number of positions in the same commodity. The bank’s reporting
currency is AED. The following positions are held in EUR:
117

[Document: document.pdf, Page 120]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Position Standard units (kg) Maturity
Long 128 4 months
Short -160 5 months
Long 96 13 months
Short -96 4 years
Firstly, calculate the current value for these positons in the reporting currency.
The following is the current situation:
Current spot price of the 5.00 EUR per kg
commodity per unit (kg) in
local currency
Current EUR/AED FX spot 4.25 1 EUR = 4.25 AED
rate
Further calculation to the position after conversion to local reporting bank’s currency
Position Standard Spot Value FX spot rate 1 Value (AED) Maturity
units (kg) price (EUR) EUR = 4.25 AED
Long 128 5.00 640 4.25 2,720 4 months
Short -160 5.00 -800 4.25 -3,400 5 months
Long 96 5.00 480 4.25 2,040 13 months
Short -96 5.00 -480 4.25 -2,040 4 years
640*4.25=2,720
-800*4.25=-3,400
480*4.25=2,040
-480*4.25=-2,040
Calculate the capital charge, first a capital charge of 15% of the overall net open position in the
commodity is required.
The overall net position is the sum of the long and short positions:
AED 2,720 – AED 3,400 + AED 2,040 – AED 2,040 = - AED 680
The overall net positon is short AED 680. This leads to a capital charge of AED 102 (680 * 15%)
Next, a capital charge of 3% of the bank’s gross positon in the commodity is required.
The gross position is the sum of the absolute values of the long and short positions:
AED 2,720 + AED 3,400 + AED 2,040 + AED 2,040 = AED 10,200
XYZ bank’s gross position is AED 10,200. This leads to a capital charge of AED 306 (10,200 *
3%).
Now, sum the charges to find the total capital charge for this commodity. The charge for the overall
net open position is AED 102, and the charge for the bank’s gross position in the commodity is
AED 306.
Therefore, XYZ bank’s total market risk capital charge for positions held in this commodity is AED
102 + AED 306, or AED 408.
2. Maturity ladder approach
Recall that XYZ bank is exposed to a number of positions in the same commodity. The bank’s
reporting currency is AED. The following positions are held in EUR:
118