[Document: PII.pdf, Page 15 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
F. Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB)
83. IRRBB is the risk of loss in the banking book caused by changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk can arise both in the banking book and/or the trading book. While interest rate
risk in the trading book is addressed under the Pillar 1 market risk framework, the interest rate
risk in the banking book should be addressed under Pillar 2. Conventional banks refer to this
risk as IRRBB while Islamic banks are exposed to the analogous risk called profit rate risk in
the banking book (PRRBB).
84. Each bank should define a risk appetite pertaining to IRRRB that should be approved
by the Board and implemented through a comprehensive risk appetite framework, i.e. policies
and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB. Each bank should have a process
supported by adequate policies to manage IRRBB appropriately.This involves, as for any other
risk, comprehensive identification, measurement, reporting, monitoring, and mitigation.
85. The measurement process should be based upon several existing Standards and
Guidance:
(i) Central Bank “Standards re Capital Adequacy of Banks in the UAE - ICAAP
Standards”;
(ii) Central Bank “Regulation and Standards re Interest Rate & Rate of Return Risk
in the Banking Book” in 2018 (Notice 3021/2018 and Circular 165/2018);
(iii) Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance in 2022 (Notice
5052/2022); and
(iv) Basel Framework - Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (SRP 31).
Measurement
86. The assessment should include all positions of each bank’s potential basis risk, re-
pricing gaps, commercial margins, gaps for material currencies optionality, and non-maturing
deposits. The quantitative impact analysis should be supported by description and analysis of
the key assumptions made by the bank, in particular, assumptions regarding loan
prepayments, the behaviour of non-maturity deposits (CASA), non-rated sensitive assets,
contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable-rate items, and measuring the
frequency of the interest rate risk in the banking book.
87. DSIBs and other banks with significant interest rate risk (IRR) exposure should
compute the economic value of equity (EVE) at a granular facility level, while non-DSIBs may
compute EVE at exposure level, which is based upon the summation of discounted gap risk
across time buckets, rather than a granular net present value (NPV) estimation at exposure
level.
Scenarios
88. For the purpose of capital calibration, each bank should employ the interest rate shock
scenarios corresponding to Table 12 of Central Bank Model Management Guidance and table
2 of the SRP 31 for their AED and non-AED positions respectively.
89. In addition to the standard shocks prescribed above, DSIBs and other banks with
significant exposure to interest rate risk are expected to apply further shocks/ idiosyncratic
scenarios, which will takeinto account:
 The bank’s inherent risk profile;
163

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 16]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Historical shocks experienced by the bank due to market sentiment and
corresponding to macro-financial factors; and
 Additional scenarios prescribed by the Central Bank specifically through
supervisory interactions or financial stability processes.
Capital Calculation
90. The capital requirement should be aggregated across all currencies and scenarios
conservatively.
91. The estimation of the Pillar 2 capital corresponding to IRRBB should be based on the
most conservative loss arising from (i) the change in the economic value of equity (ΔEVE), and
(ii) the change in net interest income (ΔNII). The most conservative result should be considered
across all the scenarios calibrated by the bank. (In avoidance of doubt, the allocated capital
for IRRBB should not be lower than the maximum of the absolute EVE impact and the absolute
NII impact: Max(abs(EVE impact), abs(NII impact).
92. The Central Bank considers a bank as an outlier when the IRRBB EVE impact based
on the standard parallel shock leads to an economic value decline of more than 15% of its Tier
1 capital. The Central Bank may request an outlier bank to:
(i) Reduce its IRRBB exposures (e.g. by hedging);
(ii) Raise additional capital;
(iii) Set constraints on the internal risk parameters used by a bank; and/ or
(iv) Improve its risk managementframework.
93. Irrespective of the approach or model chosen by the bank, at a minimum each bank
should calculate and report IRRBB using the methodology described by the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
G. Model Risk
94. Models have become an integral part of decision-making in the banking sector for risk
management, business decisions, and accounting. Inaccurate model results, e.g. based on
wrong assumptions or valuations, may lead to actual or potential financial losses or an
underestimation of risks. Therefore, the Central Bank considers model risk a significant risk
type.
95. Simple models should not be confused with poorly designed models. Poorly designed
models can be misleading and interfere with sound decision-making. Small and/or
unsophisticated banks can employ simple models. However, they cannot employ poorly
designed models. Each bank should manage model risk in accordance to the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
96. Model risk should be incorporated in each banks’ risk framework alongside other key
risks, as inherent consequences of conducting their activities (refer to Appendix 3.2).
Consequently, model risk should be managed through a formal process incorporating the
bank’s appetite for model uncertainty. The framework should be designed to identify, measure,
monitor, and mitigate this risk. A bank should mitigate a large appetite for model risk by
counter-measures such as conservative buffers on model results and/ or additional allocated
Pillar 2 capital.
164

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 17]
CBUAE Classification: Public
97. The Central Bank recognises that the estimation of model risk is challenging. However,
each bank should demonstrate that they have implemented steps to measure the potential
losses arising from model risk. At minimum, each bank should implement a grouping approach
to categorise models according to their associated model risk. The uncertainty and losses
arising from models should be estimated by using a range of different techniques, including:
(i) Internal and external validations;
(ii) Comparison against alternative models;
(iii) Sensitivity analysis; and
(iv) Stress tests.
98. Each bank should also consider the quality of its model risk management in the model
risk analysis, including but not limited to the quality of model documentation, data,
assumptions, validation, staff, implementation, and usage.
Risk Diversification Effects
99. Each bank is expected to take a prudent approach whenever assuming risk
diversification effects. Furthermore, each bank should be aware that the Central Bank as a
matter of principle will not take into account inter-risk diversification in the SREP. Banks should
be cognisant of this when applying inter-risk diversification in its ICAAP.
H. Financial Risks from Climate Change
100. Banks are expected to build up Board awareness and understanding of the financial
risks arising from climate change and how they will affect their business models. Each bank
should use scenario analysis and stress tests to improve the risk identification process, to
understand the short- and long-term financial risks to their business model from climate
change, and to develop appropriate strategies accordingly.
I. Liquidity Risk and Funding Cost
101. Though capital is not a direct mitigation for liquidity risk and liquidity is not a mitigation
for capital risk, both risk types are interlinked. The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) are
expected to inform each other; with respect to the underlying assumptions, stress test results,
and forecasted management actions. Each bank is expected to assess the potential impact of
scenarios, integrating capital and liquidity impacts, and potential feedback processes, taking
into account, in particular, losses arising from the liquidation of assets, increased funding costs
or availability of funding during periods of stress.
102. For example, each bank is expected to assess the impact of deteriorating capital levels,
as projected in the ICAAP, on their liquidity. A downgrade by an external rating agency could,
for example, have direct implications for the refinancing ability of the bank. Vice versa, changes
in funding cost could impact capital adequacy.
VII. ICAAP Stress Test and Reverse Stress Test
103. Stress test helps to improve the bank’s understanding of the vulnerabilities that it faces
under exceptional, but plausible events, and provide the bank with an indication of how much
capital might be needed to absorb losses if such events occur, which supplements other risk
management approaches and measures. These events can be financial, operational, legal, or
relate to any other risk that may have an economic impact on the bank. The results derived
165

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 18]
CBUAE Classification: Public
from stress tests can also assist the bank in determining the appropriate appetite for different
types of risks and in estimating the amount of capital that should be set aside to cover them.
104. Each bank is required to implement a stress testing framework to address both the
needs of the ICAAP and broader risk management. Stress tests and the stress test outcome
analysis should not be confined to the ICAAP. It should be designed to support decision-
making across the bank as explained in this section.
105. Each bank should perform an in-depth review of its potential vulnerabilities, capturing
all material risks on a bank-wide basis that result from its business model and operating
environment in the context of adverse events, stressed macroeconomic (e.g. economic cycle
risk), and financial conditions.
106. As part of the ICAAP exercise, each bank should carry out integrated, regular, rigorous,
and forward-looking stress tests that are appropriate to the nature of the bank’s business
model and major sources of risk. The frequency should be annually and more frequently, when
necessary, depending on the individual circumstances.
107. The Central Bank may challenge the key assumptions and their continuing relevance
to ensure that there is sufficient capital to withstand the impact of possible adverse events and/
or changes in market conditions.
Governance
108. The Board is responsible for the effective implementation of the stress tests framework
through appropriate delegation to Senior Management and subject-matter experts across the
bank. This framework should be supported by robust governance, processes, methods, and
systems with associated policies and procedures approved by the Board. The Board is not
only responsible for the stress testing policies, but also for oversight of the stress testing
execution. It is also responsible for the potential measures to mitigate stress scenario
outcomes and the key decisions and actions taken based on the stress testing results, such
as the consideration of stress testing outcomes in strategy and capital planning.
109. The stakeholders involved in a particular stress testing framework depend on the type
of stress tests. The scenario design, quantification of impact and the identification of mitigating
actions will involve a range of subject matter experts across the bank. Stress test-related
activities are not the sole responsibility of the team in charge of preparing the ICAAP or in
charge of the stress testing programme. Rather, the execution of stress tests is a collective
exercise, whereby numerous stakeholders contribute to the design, measurement, reporting
and analysis of stress tests. Stakeholders should include Senior Management and the Board.
Types of stress test exercises