
one payment leg is determined by a stock index with the second leg determined by a fixed or
floating rate of interest. Alternatively, the second leg may be determined by some other stock
index (often referred to as a relative performance swap).
Equity swaps should be treated as two notional positions. For example, in an equity swap
where a bank is receiving an amount based on the change in value of one stock index and paying
an amount based on a different index, the bank is regarded as having a long position in the former
index and a short positionin the latter index.
In addition to the general market risk requirement, a further capital charge of 2% will be
applied to the net long or short position in index contracts on a diversified portfolio of equities, to
cover factors such as execution risk. As the standard stated.
104

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 104]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Refer to the examples below in this section for numerical illustrations
C. Foreign Exchange Rates
Market risk can be influenced by changes in foreign exchange rates, that is, foreign
exchange risk.
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the value of foreign exchange positions may be
adversely affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Foreign exchange positions or
exposures incur only general market risk. The capital charge for foreign exchange risk also include
a charge for positions in gold. For purposes of market risk capital requirements, the Central Bank
takes into account the stable relationship between the AED and the US dollar, with the resultthat
no capital is charged for open positions in USD. Foreign currency is any currency other than the
bank's reporting currency.
Two steps are required to calculate the overall net open position:
Step 1: Determine the Exposure in Each Currency
The first step is to calculate the bank's open position, long or short in each currency.
The open position in each currency is the sum of:
 the net spot FX position (Includes also all asset items less all liability items, including
accrued interest, denominated in the currency)
 the net forward FX position (Because forward FX rates reflect interest rate differentials,
forward positions are normally valued at current spot exchange rates. The net forward
position in an exposure should consist of all amounts to be received less all amounts to
be paid under forward FX transactions, including currency futures and the principal on
currency swaps not included in the spot position. For banks that base their management
accounting on the net present values (NPVs), the NPV of each position should be used;
discounted using current interest rates and valued at current spot rates)
 guarantees and similar instruments that are certain to be called and are likely to be
irrecoverable.
 net future income and expenses not yet accrued but already fully hedged
 any other item representing a profit or loss in foreign currencies
 the net delta-based equivalent of the total book of foreign currency options
Step 2: Determine the Overall Net Open Position across FX Exposures
The second step in calculating the capital requirement for FX risk is to measure the risk in the
bank's portfolio of foreign currency and gold positions.
You can determine the overall net open position of the portfolio by first converting the exposure
in each foreign currency into the reporting currency at the spot rates. Then, calculate the overall
net position by summing the following:
 the greater of the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions
(excluding the net open position in the US dollar
 Take the larger of the two sums, from the step above, and add the absolute value of the
net position (short or long) in gold.
The capital charge for foreign exchange market risk is 8% of the position resulting from the
105

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 105]
CBUAE Classification: Public
calculation above.
Foreign Exchange (FX) Exceptions
The Central Bank of UAE may allow banks to exclude certain FX positions from the capital
charges calculation. Banks have to comply with both the requirement of para 70 of the Market
Risk section of the standards.
Items that are deducted from a bank’s capital when calculating its capital base, such as
investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries, or other long-term participations denominated in
foreign currencies, which are reported in the published accounts at historic cost, do not need to
be included as foreign currency exposures for the foreign exchange risk calculation.
Banks with negligible business in foreign currencies and with no FX positions taken for
their own account may exclude their FX positions if they meet both of the following requirements:
 their FX business (the greater of the sum of their gross long positions and the sum of their
gross short positions) does not exceed 100% of total capital (Tier 1 + Tier 2)
 their overall net open position does not exceed 2% of its total capital
D. Commodity Risk
Market risk can be influenced by changes in commodity prices, that is, commodity risk.
Commodity risk is the risk that on- or off-balance sheet positions will be adversely affected by
movements in commodity prices.
A commodity is defined as a physical product that can be traded on a secondary market,
for example, agricultural products, minerals and precious metals. Gold; however, is covered under
the framework for foreign exchange.
Price risk in commodities is often more complex and volatile than price risk associated
with currencies and interest rates. One reason for this is that commodity prices are influenced by
natural events such as floods and droughts. Changes in supply and demand also have more
dramatic effects on price and volatility, and commodity markets often lack liquidity.
Commodity risk only has a general market risk component because commodity prices are
not influenced by specific risk.
Banks using portfolio strategies involving forward and derivative contracts on commodities
are exposed to a variety of additional risks, such as:
 Basis risk. the risk of changes in the cost of carry for forward positions and options. Cost
of carry is a margin and refers to the net effect of borrowing funds for a certain period of
time and investing them in a financial instrument or commodity for the same period of time.
If the interest earned on the instrument or commodity is greater than the cost of borrowing,
then the cost of carry is positive. The cost of carry can also be negative if the cost of
borrowing is greater than the interest earned.
 Forward gap risk. This is the risk wherein forward prices may change for reasons other
than a change in interest rates.
It is important to note that these risks could well exceed the risk associated with changes
in spot prices of commodities.
106

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 106 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. `Treatment of Commodities
Offsetting
When measuring risk in commodities, offsetting between positions is restricted.
 Offsetting is allowed between long and short positions in exactly the same commodity to
calculate open positions.
 In general, offsetting is not allowed between positions in different commodities. However,
the Central Bank may permit offset between different sub-categories of the same
commodity, for example, different categories of crude oil, if:
 they are deliverable against each other
 they are close substitutes for each other, with a minimum correlation of 0.9
between price movements over a period of at least one year
Correlations
Banks using correlations between commodities to offset commodity positions must have
obtained prior approval from the Central bank of UAE.
2. Calculating the Capital Charge
Two alternative approaches for calculating the capital charge for commodities are set out
by the standardised measurement method:
a) Simplified Approach
Under the simplified approach, banks must express each commodity position, spot plus
forward, in terms of the standard unit of measurement (barrels, kilos, grams, and so on).
The capital charge is the sum of two charges:
 15% of the net position in each commodity. All commodity derivatives and off-balance
sheet positions affected by changes in commodity prices should be included.
 3% of the bank's gross commodity positions, that is, the sum of the net long plus net short
positions in each commodity, calculated using the current spot price. This charge
addresses basis risk, interest rate risk and forward gap risk.
b) Maturity Ladder Approach
There are seven steps involved in calculating the capital charge for commodities using the
maturity ladder approach. A separate maturity ladder must be used for each commodity.
The maturity ladder approach
Step 1 Express each commodity position in terms of the standard unit of measurement,
and value in the reporting currency at the current spot price
Step 2 Slot each position into a time band in the maturity ladder according to remaining
maturity
Step 3 Apply a capital charge of 1.5% to the sum of the matched long and short positions
in each time band to capture spread risk. Instead of applying the 1.5% spread risk
charge to the sum of matched long and short positions in each time band, some
countries apply a 3% spread risk charge to the matched position.
Step 4 Apply a capital charge of 0.6% to the residual net position carried forward to the
next relevant time band, multiplied by the number of time bands it is carried.
Step 5 Repeat step 3 and step 4 for each time band.
107