[Document: document.pdf, Page 151]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 2
149

[Document: document.pdf, Page 152]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 2 – Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP)
I. Introduction and Purpose
1. All banks licensed by the Central Bank of the UAE must ensure that Pillar 1 risks -
credit, market, and operational risk - are mitigated by capital, in compliance with the capital
adequacy framework articulated in the document Central Bank “Regulations re Capital
Adequacy” issued under Notice 60/2017 and the supporting capital standards and guidance,
articulated in the document Central Bank “Standards and Guidance re Capital Adequacy of
Banks in the UAE”. Incompliance with the Standards, each bank is required to quantify all risks
that are not covered, or not sufficiently covered by Pillar 1 capital, and determine the additional
capital required to mitigate these risks. The capital required to cover these risks is referred to
as Pillar 2 capital.
2. Each bank is required to have a process to assess its overall capital adequacy as a
function of its risk profile and its strategy. Each bank is required to maintain appropriate capital
levels in accordance with the Central Bank Standards on Pillar 2 capital. This process is termed
the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).
3. As part of the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP), the Central Bank
analyses the capitalisation levels of banks among other information, referring to the results of
the ICAAP with regard to the internal view of capital adequacy. If the evaluation concludes that
the capital levels of the individual bank are not satisfactory, the Central Bank may require a
bank to meet an adjusted Minimum Capital Adequacy ratio accordingly.
4. Consequently, Pillar 2 is both a bank internal process reported under the ICAAP, and
the evaluation of each bank’s compete capital adequacy includes the ICAAP in its regulatory
process - the SREP. First, it is the responsibility of each bank to ensure that its ICAAP is
comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale, and complexity of its activities. Each
bank bears the responsibility for the appropriate identification, estimation, and reporting of
risks, and the corresponding the calibration of capital necessary to mitigate these risks.
Second, the ICAAP is a critical reference for supervision and for the supervisory dialogue
between banks and Central Bank.
Purpose
5. This Guidance presents minimum expected practices to be considered by each bank
in order to undertake their ICAAP, covering the process, content, outcome, and usage. It
clarifies the application of the Central Bank’s expectations regarding the requirements of the
Central Bank ICAAP Standards. Note, that the Central Bank plans to issue separately detailed
requirements relating to the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP).
6. It also intends to support each bank in the identification, measurement, reporting, and
mitigation of Pillar 2 risks. This Guidance does not prescribe specific methodologies but rather,
it provides a framework, within which a bank should elaborate research, analyse, and draw
conclusions relevant to the risk profiles of their books. Each bank remains fully responsible for
the methodology and process supporting the ICAAP.
7. All methodologies employed by a bank for its ICAAP should be relevant to its business
model, risk profile, to the geographies of its exposures, and, in particular, to the features of the
UAE economy. The methodologies and processes employed by the bank in its ICAAP should
be fully documented, transparent and replicable. Each bank should be in a position to justify
their decisions and modelling choices with historical data and benchmarking across a range of
practices, which will be subject to supervisory scrutiny. Models employed for the measurement
150

[Document: document.pdf, Page 153]
CBUAE Classification: Public
of Pillar 2 risks should comply with the Central Bank Model Management Standards and
Guidance.
8. The Central Bank may apply proportionality for smaller and less complex banks when
evaluating the ICAAP. This does not mean that smaller or less complex banks are exempted
from the reporting requirements or from undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the risks
they face. Smaller banks have to perform the whole ICAAP and address the full reporting
scope. In cases where a bank’s capabilities lead them to use simpler methodologies, a more
conservative capital treatment may be appropriate. However, the Central Bank expects a more
sophisticated risk management approach from large banks and/ or banks with complex risk
profiles in the assessment of their Pillar 2 risks.
9. For the licensed operations of foreign banks in the UAE, when this document refers to
the bank’s Board, it should be comprehended as the Managing Director and/ or the highest
committee in the UAE operations of the bank in which the Managing Director has to be the
Chairman.
10. This Guidance serves several purposes. It
(i) Explains in more detail the Central Bank’s expectations on fulfilling the
requirements of the ICAAP Capital Standards, in particular, related to the ICAAP
(process) at each bank and certain aspects of the content of the ICAAP report;
(ii) Covers expectations on some processual elements of the ICAAP, such as an
appropriate approval process of the ICAAP report and its submission timelines;
and
(iii) Formulates expectations about additional sections of the ICAAP report (e.g.
related to internal audit findings and changes compared to the previous ICAAP
report).
II. ICAAP Executive Summary
11. It is important that the executive summary of the ICAAP document produced by each
bank should explain the views of Senior Management and the Board on the suitability of the
bank’s capital to cover the risks faced by the bank in light of its risk profile, its risk appetite and
its future business plans. These views must be supported by key quantitative results including
the current and expected capital position of the bank under various economic conditions
including stressed circumstances. It should also provide a clear analysis of the drivers of
capital consumption, including Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks and stress testing. The conclusion
should be unambiguous, forward-looking and consider the uncertainty of the business and
economic conditions.
12. More specifically, the executive summary of the ICAAP report should contain the
following elements:
(i) The main findings of the ICAAP;
(ii) A brief description of the ICAAP governance framework covering the
stakeholders, the assessment process, the challenging process and the
approval process;
(iii) A brief presentation of the bank’s structure, subsidiaries, businesses, material
risks, risk appetite, and risk mitigating actions, where applicable;
(iv) A description of the current capital position of the bank showing the allocation of
capital per risk type, covering Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks;
(v) Each bank should complete the ICAAP Executive Summary Table (Table 3) as
151

[Document: document.pdf, Page 154]
CBUAE Classification: Public
indicated in Appendix 2 of this document;
(vi) A description of the current capital composition of the bank against minimum
capital requirements covering at least CET1, AT1, and Tier 2 capital ratios;
(vii) A forward-looking analysis of the budgeted capital position of the bank, based
on the bank’s expected business plan over the next three (3) years, reflecting
the current, and expected economic conditions. This needs to cover expected
dividend distribution;
(viii) An analysis of the capital position and capital ratios under several stress
scenarios, the analysis of the stress scenarios should include the intended risk
mitigation actions;
(ix) An assessment of the adequacy of the bank’s risk management processes
including critical judgment on the areas that need improvement; and
(x) A conclusion of the ICAAP addressing the suitability of the capital to cover the
bank’s current and expected risks.
13. Appendix 3.4 lists further information and documentation that is required to accompany
a bank’s ICAAP report.
III. ICAAP Governance
14. Given the critical and major role of the ICAAP in banks’ sustainability and strategy, the
Board of Directors is required to approve the ICAAP. The ICAAP should be subject to an
effective decision-making process, by which the assumptions, projections, and conclusions
are thoroughly discussed, analysed, and challenged at several levels in the organisation
including (i) the relevant committees of subject matter experts, (ii) Senior Management, and
(iii) the Board.
15. The Board has ultimate ownership and responsibility of the ICAAP. It is required to
approve an ICAAP on a yearly basis. The Board is also expected to approve the ICAAP
governance framework with a clear and transparent assignment of responsibilities, adhering
to the segregation of functions, as described in Refer to Appendix 3.1. The governance
framework should ensure that the ICAAP is an integral part of the bank’s management process
and decision-making. The ICAAP governance framework should include a clear approach to
the regular internal review and validation by the appropriate functions of the bank.
16. The policy framework should be approved by the Board. Senior Management has to
implement the framework via effective procedures and systems. The framework must include
measures reflected in the ICAAP report applied in day-to-day business and supported by
suitable MIS at appropriate frequencies. A key aspect of this requirement is the “Use Test”
principle covered in the next section. The risk framework has to be applied across the
organisation.
IV. ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test
Methodology
17. The ICAAP is an ongoing process. On an annual basis, every bank is required to
submit a document outlining the outcome of the ICAAP to the Central Bank, usually referred
to as its ICAAP document or report. The ICAAP supplements the Pillar 1 minimum regulatory
capital requirements by (i) identifying risks that are not addressed or not fully addressed
through Pillar 1 regulations, referred to as Pillar 2 risks, and (ii) determining a level of capital
commensurate with the level of risk. The Central Bank requires each bank to adopt a Pillar 1
152

[Document: document.pdf, Page 155]
CBUAE Classification: Public
plus approach. According to this, the bank’s total capital requirements include the minimum
Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirements, plus the capital required to cover Pillar 2 risks. As a
result, the ICAAP should result in additional capital requirements specific to each bank’s
business model.
18. Board and Senior Management are responsible to deliver a comprehensive, effective,
and accurate assessment of capital adequacy. Each bank is consequently required to conduct
an ICAAP supported by appropriate methods and procedures to ensure that adequate capital
covers all material risks. Each bank should adopt progressively more sophisticated
approaches in measuring risks to keep up with the business model evolvement, the risk profile,
size of the bank, and appropriate market practice. The key objective is for each bank to be
transparent and demonstrate the relevance of the approach taken in relation to the nature of
their activities and risk profile to the Board and the Central Bank.
19. The frequency of reporting to the Board is expected to be at least quarterly, but,
depending on the size, complexity, business model, risk types of the institution, and the market
environment, reporting might need to be more frequent to ensure timely management actions.
The quarterly reporting should comprise the internal calculation of the capital ratios (Pillar 1
and Pillar 2 under business-as-usual (BAU) and under stress scenarios), which includes
determining the surplus/ shortfall of capital. Stress scenarios and internal forecasts only need
to be updated on a quarterly basis, if required. Nevertheless, the ICAAP reporting to the
Central Bank remains an annual exercise. However, if the quarterly results deviate significantly
compared to the results of the ICAAP report as submitted to the Central Bank, then the bank
should inform the Central Bank of the updated capital plan (including reasons for the
deviations, capital ratios and mitigation actions).
20. The ICAAP should be supported by robust methodologies and data. All models used
directly or indirectly in the ICAAP should follow the bank’s model management framework, in
compliance with the Central Bank Standards and Guidance. The data employed in the ICAAP
should be comprehensive, reliable, follow rigorous quality checks, and control mechanisms.
Scope
21. Each bank is expected to ensure the effectiveness and consistency of the ICAAP at
each level, with a special focus on the group level for local banks. The ICAAP of these banks
is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand-alone basis, at regulatory
consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should primarily evaluate the
capital requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory
consolidation. However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the
group structure of the bank. The group structure must be analysed from different perspectives.
To be able to effectively assess and maintain capital adequacy across entities, strategies, risk
management processes, decision-making, methodologies, and assumptions applied should
be coherent across the entire group. Identified additional risks may increase the capital
requirement on group level accordingly.
22. Capital transferability within the group should be assessed conservatively and
cautiously, which should be considered in the ICAAP. Each bank should have a process to
ensure capital transferability that addresses any restrictions on the management's ability to
transfer or allocate capital into or out of the bank's subsidiaries (for example contractual,
commercial, regulatory, or statutory/legal restrictions that may apply). The capital allocation or
distribution and the approval process between the bank’s holding company (group/parent) and
the subsidiaries in the banking group should be well defined. The analysis should also consider
risks arising from structural foreign currency positions relating to assets, liabilities, and equity.
23. A bank that has domestic or foreign subsidiaries or branches is expected to evaluate
the difference between the ICAAP determined for the bank (including its subsidiaries) and the
153

[Document: document.pdf, Page 156]
CBUAE Classification: Public
ICAAP at solo level (without subsidiaries). Therefore, the bank should identify any potential
and additional risks both at consolidated group level and at solo bank level. The analysis
should also address international operations that have jurisdictional capital requirements or
restrictions.
24. Additional risks may also arise from entities that are not consolidated under Pillar 1,
e.g. investments in commercial subsidiaries, including Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV), and
insurance companies. Each bank should evaluate whether the required Pillar 1 capital
adequately covers all risks arising from those entities. The evaluation should consider all risk
types, including credit risk, reputational risk, and step-in risk, etc. The analysis should not be
limited to branches and subsidiaries but should also consider affiliates, if material. Such
analysis should not be limited to local banks only, also foreign banks operating in the UAE
should identify and analyse all their dependencies on parent companies through centralised
risk management/ shared services etc.
Use Test
25. The ICAAP and the bank’s business strategy form a feedback process. While the
ICAAP has to reflect the bank’s business strategy, and business decisions. The bank should
implement a formal process to analyse whether the outcomes of the ICAAP influence the
business strategy. Banks should determine which additional capital requirements under Pillar
1 and Pillar 2 in business as usual BAU and stress scenarios on the top of the minimum
regulatory requirements would be adequate and whether the bank’s risk appetite is adequate
or requires to be adjusted accordingly. The formal feedback process should also include links
to the banks’ business decisions, risk management process (e.g. using the ICAAP
methodologies, results in the approval process, limit setting, strategic processes, such as
capital planning or budgeting, and performance measurement). For that purpose, the Board
and Senior Management should lead and approve the assumptions, methodology, framework,
and outcome of the ICAAP. The usage of the ICAAP within the organisation and its alignment
with strategic decisions is referred to as the ‘Use Test’.
26. The ICAAP should have an interactive relationship with other key processes within the
bank, including but not limited to, (i) business strategies, (ii) financial budgeting, (iii) risk
management, (iv) risk appetite setting, and (v) stress tests. Metrics related to capital allocation
and capital consumption should be included in the banks’ risk appetite. Conversely, the metrics
pertaining to business management and to risk management should take into consideration
the capital plan.
27. Conceptually, this circular process should be articulated according to the following
illustration and guidance. Each bank should design its own iterative process:
(i) The Board, Senior Management and the business lines should provide their
business plan and budget to construct the ICAAP;
(ii) The risk management function should analyse the feasibility and the risks
associated to such business plan;
(iii) The ICAAP should result in an estimation of the adequate level of capital given
the business and risk assumptions. This should be approved by the Board and
by Senior Management; and
(iv) In return, the ICAAP and capital requirements should feed back to the business
lines and the risk management function in order to steer the strategy of the bank.
28. The stakeholders should regularly interact with each other during the production of the
ICAAP in order to (i) obtain consistent forward-looking capital projections, and (ii) use capital
154

[Document: document.pdf, Page 157]
CBUAE Classification: Public
projections consistently in their own decision-making. The stakeholders should include, but not
be limited to, the Board, Senior Management, the business lines, the risk management
function, and the finance function.
29. Each bank should demonstrate its appropriate usage of the ICAAP via the production
of thorough documentation, reporting covering the process, methodology, decision-making for
capital allocation, and strategy. Each bank should document the overall ICAAP design,
including key elements and the mechanism by which they interact with each other. Such
components should include, but not be limited to, the business strategies, risk appetite
statement, risk measurement methods, stress tests programme, and reporting across the
Group.
30. Regular reporting should be constructed to measure and monitor Pillar 2 risks in
addition to the annual ICAAP report exercise. Adequate metrics and associated limits should
be designed in relation to the bank’s size and complexity.
31. The Central Bank shall evaluate evidence that the bank has embraced the process for
business rather than regulatory reasons. Evidence should be provided that the management
has, through the ICAAP, made the business more efficient or less risky.
V. Capital Planning
32. Each bank should operate above the minimum capital requirements set by the Central
Bank. Each bank should have a capital plan approved by the Board. The objective of capital
planning is to ensure that:
(i) Each bank is compliant with minimum regulatory requirements;
(ii) The bank is viable and able to endure external economic changes; and
(iii) Each bank’s capital is calibrated to its risk profile in order to absorb unexpected
losses through time, including periods of economic downturn.
33. The ICAAP should be designed as a tool to adequately support these objectives. Each
bank’s management is expected to develop and maintain an appropriate strategy that ensure
the level of capital and the process to estimate such level should be commensurate with the
nature, scope, scale, size, complexity, and risks of each bank.
34. The ICAAP should be forward-looking taking into account both internal and external
drivers over a period covering three (3) to five (5) years. The capital planning should take into
account the bank’s business plan, its strategic development and the economic environment.
35. The multi-year capital forecast should be assessed and calibrated through two
perspectives:
(i) Pillar 1: The bank’s ability to fulfil all of its capital-related regulatory, supervisory
requirements, and demands; and
(ii) Pillar 2: The bank’s ability to cope with capital demands beyond that of the
regulatory requirements, in accordance to its risk profile.
36. Both perspectives should be function of the bank’s business plan. In addition, the
second perspective should incorporate a more granular, specific, and accurate measurement
of risks. Both perspectives should take into account the current, expected economic
environment, and consider the occurrence of stressed events.
37. If the bank identifies a shortfall in capital pertaining to either Pillar 1 or Pillar 2. It is
155

[Document: document.pdf, Page 158]
CBUAE Classification: Public
expected to consider measures to maintain adequate capitalisation, reverse the trend, review
its strategy, and risk appetite.
38. For each internal stress test scenario for capital planning purposes, each bank is
expected to consider credible, quantifiable management actions that the bank could practically
take to mitigate any capital impact of stress scenarios. Such mitigating actions for ICAAP
stress scenarios may differ from actions related to recovery planning. The timing and execution
of these management actions should be supported by appropriate trigger points of the bank’s
capital position, which may be informed by their internal risk appetite for capital adequacy.
When the bank’s capital ratios fall below its internal risk appetite, it is expected that the bank
is able to execute the necessary measures, i.e. the bank should explain how the capital
adequacy would be ensured/ restored (e.g. via a capital contingency plan). In assessing the
effectiveness of a management action, each bank should also consider the perceived
reputational impact (e.g. as viewed by the market, customers, government etc.) on taking such
an action in a stress. The results should be disclosed in the ICAAP report with and without
those management actions that have been approved by the bank’s Board.
39. If the bank plans the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights issues,
reduction in the equity, etc.), the bank may consider the capital increase in its capital planning.
The bank should only consider capital increases that have obtained Senior Management
approval and form part of the bank’s official capital plan and that have been discussed with the
Central Bank. A bank that considers capital increases in it capital planning has to perform an
additional stress test scenario to analyse the impact if the capital increase does not materialise.
40. The following elements should be included in the ICAAP report or related appendix:
(i) Assumptions related to business developments over the forecasted period;
(ii) Assumptions related to the economic environment over the forecasted period;
(iii) Summary of historic capital base, aggregate RWAs, and CAR ratios for a
minimum of five (5) years;
(iv) Disclosure of the following forecasted financial projections:
(v) Detailed balance sheet;
(vi) Detailed statement of profit and loss;
(vii) Break down of Capital base into its regulatory components;
(viii) Break down of Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) components;
(ix) Significant ratios (e.g. CET 1, Tier 1, and CAR);
(x) A method to calibrate capital needs to the current and expected levels of risks,
in coherence with the bank’s risk appetite, business plan, and strategy;
(xi) It should include the likely future constraints on the availability and the use of
capital; and
(xii) Any future regulatory and accounting changes that can potentially impact such
plan.
41. Banks are required to fulfill internal risk appetite requirements in the bank’s self-
assessment of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 minimum regulatory capital requirements. Banks should
156

[Document: document.pdf, Page 159]
CBUAE Classification: Public
fulfill the minimum capital requirements plus capital buffer requirements under business as
usual (BAU) conditions. Under stress testing (ST) banks should fulfill the minimum capital
requirements without the requirement to meet buffer requirements.
42. The capital planning should not be limited to risk-based capital ratios but should also
consider the leverage ratio of the bank. Bank should analyse and consider unaccounted
foreseeable events in the capital plan, e.g. regulatory changes like the revised standardised
approaches for credit, market and operational risk.
VI. Material Risks
43. As a part of its risk management practices, each bank is responsible for implementing
a regular process to identify, measure, report, monitor, and mitigate risks. Such risk
management process should be used as direct input into the calibration of capital demand to
cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks. The framework supporting the estimation of capital
consumption for each risk type should approved by Senior Management and the Board.
44. All risks identified as material risks are expected to be addressed in the ICAAP. Risk
materiality should depend on each bank’s business model and risk profile. The scope of such
risk identification should cover the entire group, including all branches and subsidiaries of the
bank. The Central Bank considers credit concentration risk and interest rate risk in the banking
book (IRRBB) as defined in this Guidance, as material risks. Given the growing risk universe
outside of traditional Pillar 1 risks, each bank must define, update, and review the applicable
ICAAP risks on a continuous basis (e.g. quarterly).
45. The identification of risks should distinguish between direct risks and indirect risks.
Direct risks are explicit and commonly identifiable risks, such as the credit risk associated with
facility underwriting. Indirect risks are arising as second order consequences of direct risks
and unforeseen events. For instance, an increase in fraud and cyber-attacks as a
consequence of an economic downturn or a pandemic during which employees are forced to
work from home. Other examples are the credit risk arising from derivatives during periods of
high market volatility or the increase in credit risk resulting from a drop in collateral values
following a real estate market crash.
46. The identification of risks should be supported by a regular and structured process. An
inventory of risks should be recorded for each business activity and each portfolio on a regular
basis. In addition to the regular updates (i.e. at least quarterly), it is expected to adjust the
inventory whenever it no longer reflects the risks that are material, e.g. because a new product
has been introduced or certain business activities have been expanded. This should support
the production of ICAAP from one year to the next.
47. The measurement of risk should be transparent, documented, and supported by
subject-matter experts throughout the bank. Each expert function should contribute to its area
of expertise, in such way that the ICAAP is a reflection of a collective work substantiated by
thorough analysis. Each dedicated risk team should provide a comprehensive assessment of
the risk drivers and materiality of the risk they manage.
48. The estimation of the capital consumption associated with each risk should be based
upon clear methodologies designed appropriately for each risk type. Each bank should identify
the owner of such methodology either within the team responsible to manage risks or with a
centralised team responsible for aggregating risk information and to construct the ICAAP.
Ultimately, the process to identify, measure risks, and estimate the associated capital
consumption should be approved by Senior Management and the Board.
49. In the case of vendor models, this includes the expectation that such models are not
expected to be imported mechanistically, but rather they are expected to be fully understood
157

[Document: document.pdf, Page 160]
CBUAE Classification: Public
by the bank and well suited for, and tailored to, its business and its risk profile.
50. The identification of risks should result in distinct types:
(i) Pillar 1 risks that are not fully captured and that are covered by insufficient
capital. For instance, the market risk capital consumption under Pillar 1 might
not incorporate sufficient basis risk; and
(ii) Risks that are not captured at all as part of the Pillar 1 framework.
51. Each bank should not develop separate methodologies for risk measurement, if those
are not employed for risk management. The Use Test assumes that the method and conclusion
of the ICAAP should be coherent with the bank’s internal practices.
52. To ensure an adequate assessment of high quality, each bank should establish, and
implement an effective data quality framework, to deploy adequate processes, and control
mechanisms to ensure the quality of data. The data quality framework should ensure reliable
risk information that supports sound decision-making, covers all relevant risk data, and data
quality dimensions.
53. The next sections contain explanations and expectations on certain risk types (e.g.
Business Model Analysis (BMA) and strategic risk, Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,
and Credit concentration risk).
A. Business Model Analysis (BMA) and Strategic Risk
54. Business model analysis embodies the risk that the bank has failed to structure its
organisation and operations (expertise, systems, and processes) in a way that leads to
achieving its primary business and strategic objectives.
55. Strategic risks arise when the bank’s business model, organisation structure,
operations, and/or strategy are no longer adequate to deliver the objective of the bank as
specified by the Board.
56. The bank should conduct regular business model analysis (BMA) to assess its
business and strategic risks to determine:
(i) The ability of the bank’s current business model to deliver suitable results over
the following 12 months;
(ii) The sustainability of the bank’s strategy and its ability to deliver suitable/
acceptable results over a forward-looking period of at least three (3) to five (5)
years, based on the strategic plans and financial planning;
(iii) The sustainability and sufficient diversification of income over time (three (3) to
five (5) years). This analysis should consider the sources and levels of income
and expenses; and
(iv) The ability of the bank to deliver total financial data across the group and for
each of its key business units (includes forward-looking performance and
profitability).
57. An effective BMA contains a through-the-cycle view of the sustainability of the business
model in its current state and against a projected view of the bank’s funding structure, return
on equity (ROE), capital supply, and capital demand, the effect this has on the product, service
pricing, and resource requirements. The business planning should be clear, aligned, and
158

[Document: document.pdf, Page 161]
CBUAE Classification: Public
integrated with the bank’s strategy, governance, risk-appetite statement, recovery plans,
internal controls, stress tests, and internal reporting (MIS).
58. Each bank should elaborate on the linkage and consistency between their strategic
decisions, risk appetite, and the resources allocated for achieving those strategies. The bank
should articulate the frequency of monitoring and quantifying changes in its financial
projections (e.g. balance sheet, profit and loss, and concentrations) regularly to verify that they
are consistent with the business model, risk appetite, and the achievement of the bank’s
strategic goals.
59. An effective BMA enables banks to identify vulnerabilities at an early stage and assess
their ability to adapt to changes in their specific operating environment therefore helps to
promote the safety and soundness of banks. A well-designed and comprehensive BMA
approach provides banks with the basis to understand, analyse, assess the sustainability of
their business models, enhance proactive, forward-looking operations, and strategy
evaluation.
60. Each bank’s business model should be based on analyses and realistic assumptions
(stress tests, scenario analyses, and driver analyses, etc.) about the effect of strategic choices
on financial and economic outcomes of operations performed. This will enable the bank and
the Central Bank to understand the nature of the business model and the inherent risks. Each
bank should perform an analysis that involves identifying, challenging the dependency of
strategies on uncontrollable external factors, and assumptions (e.g. market interest rates,
demand growth in the target customer markets, degree of competition in the markets, cost of
entry, and compliance costs).
61. An effective BMA addresses the banks’ ability to produce aggregate financial data
across the banking group as a whole, and the bank solo level, for each of its main business
units and business lines. Moreover, to make the best use of this data and transform it into
relevant inputs, banks need to develop and use analytical tools including stress tests, peer
group assessments, profitability forecasts and analysis, and scenario analyses.
62. The documentation provided in support of the business model should contain an
overview of the business activities of the bank and an overview of the structure/organisational
details of the bank. For example a brief description of the business model, present financial
condition, any expected changes in the present business model, the expected future business
environment, business plans, and the projected financial condition for the following year.
63. The following additional information and documentation should be referenced (if not
part of) the ICAAP report:
(i) Bank’s strategic plan(s) with current-year, forward-looking forecasts, and
underlying economic assumptions;
(ii) Financial reporting (e.g. profit and loss (P&L), and balance sheet), covering the
most recent period and the whole (forward-looking) ICAAP reporting period;
(iii) Internal reporting (e.g. management information, capital reporting, liquidity
reporting, and internal risk reporting);
(iv) Recovery plans, including the results of resolvability assessment, if any, and
identification of critical functions;
(v) Third-party reports (e.g. audit reports, and reports by equity/credit analysts),
states their main concerns and issues;
159

[Document: document.pdf, Page 162]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(vi) A descriptive report on the main business lines generating revenues broken
down by main products, services, other activities, geographies, and market
position; and
(vii) Peer group analysis segregated by competitor bank, product, or business lines
targeting the same source of profits and customers (e.g. credit card businesses
targeting consumers at a particular economic stratum in a specific country.
64. Business model analysis may act as a base for the development of Reverse Stress
Test scenarios.
B. Credit Risk
65. Credit risk is the risk of losses arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet
its obligations as they fall due. Each bank should assess all its credit exposures and determine
whether the risk weights applied to such exposures under the regulatory standardised
approach for credit risk (Standardised Approach) are appropriate for the inherent risk of the
exposures. Each bank should have the ability to assess credit risk at the portfolio level as well
as at the exposure or counterparty level.
66. To ensure that each bank has sufficient capital allocated for credit risk, each bank
should compare their capital consumption under two methods for all credit exposures across
all asset classes: (i) the Standardised Approach and (ii) an estimation under the foundation
internal-rating based approach (F-IRB) in the Basel Framework (“IRB approach: risk weight
functions”, CRE31).
67. The Central Bank recognises that some banks may not have appropriately calibrated
probability of defaults (PDs) for the calculation of the F-IRB approach. In the absence of such
calibration, banks should rely on their 1-year PD used for IFRS provisioning purposes. Each
bank should undertake this comparison at asset class level, where higher F-IRB numbers
indicate additional required capital. Drivers of material differences between the two
approaches should be explained.
68. If a bank uses credit risk mitigation techniques (CRMT), it should analyse and evaluate
the risks associated to such mitigation under Pillar 2 risks measurement. The bank should
analyse potential effects, the enforceability and the effectiveness of such CRMT, in particular
in the case of real estate collaterals in order to estimate residual credit risk with prudence.
C. Market Risk
69. Market risk is the risk of losses in on- and off-balance sheet positions arising from
movements in market factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices,
commodities prices, credit spreads, and options volatilities. Each bank should have
methodologies and limits that enable it to assess and actively manage all material market risks,
at several levels of granularity including position, desk, business line, or firm-wide level.
70. Under its ICAAP, each bank should assess its capital adequacy for market risk by
considering methods other than the regulatory standardised approach for market risk. Each
bank should start this assessment with the metrics already employed to measure market risk
as part of regular risk management, including net open positions (NOP), value-at-risk (VaR),
stressed VaR, and economic stress tests. The calibration of capital associated to Pillar 2 risks
should be undertaken with prudence and should include risks such as concentration risk,
market illiquidity, basis risk, and jump-to-default risk.
71. Ultimately, market risk capital should be designed to protect the bank against market
risk volatility over the long term, including periods of stress and high volatility. Therefore, each
160

[Document: document.pdf, Page 163]
CBUAE Classification: Public
bank should ensure that such calibration include appropriate stressed periods. The analysis
should be structured based on the bank’s key drivers of market risk, including portfolios, asset
classes, market risk factors, geographies, product types and tenors.
72. Each bank should analyse its amortised cost portfolio under Pillar 2, considering the
difference between the market value against the book value.
D. Operational Risk
73. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes,
people, or systems, or external events. This definition includes legal risk and compliance risk
but excludes strategic and reputational risk. The framework for operational risk management
should cover the bank’s appetite and tolerance for operational risks, and the manner and
extent to which operational risk is transferred outside the bank.
74. Operational risk is a recurrent and a material source of losses for many banks but the
existing approaches (the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA), the Standardised Approach (SA),
and the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)) for calculating Pillar 1 operational risk
capital may not reliably reflect the nature and scale of potential operational risk losses. The
Pillar 1 Standardised Approach for operational risk uses gross income as a measure of capital.
Gross income is a risk-insensitive proxy for operational risk capital, which may lead banks to
underestimate the risk. This was evident during the economic downturn in 2009, when banks’
income dropped, lowering their regulatory operational risk capital requirement, yet operational
risks were either constant or even elevated in some cases. Therefore, banks should ensure
that their Pillar 2 capital charge covers operational risks that are not captured by regulatory
capital methodologies. The analysis should include a robust and conservative forecast of
operational risk losses and respective capital requirements (at least split into conduct and non-
conduct risks).
75. Legal risk is considered an operational risk. Each bank is required to analyse, assess,
and quantify the impact of legal risk failures on its capital structure. Examples of legal risk
include inadequate documentation, legal, regulatory incapacity, the insufficient authority of a
counterparty, and contract invalidity/ unenforceability. The Legal department of each bank bear
responsibility for the identification and management of this risk. They must consult with internal
and external legal counsel. Subsidiaries and branches of major international banking groups
typically have in-house legal departments, acting under the guidance of the group, which aims
to facilitate the business of the group, by providing proactive, business-oriented advice. The
outcome of legal and/or regulatory issues to which the bank is currently exposed, and others,
which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict and, consequently, there can be no
assurance that the outcome of a legal matters will not be material to the financial condition of
the bank.
76. Given the potential impact from operational risk, each bank should evaluate under
Pillar 2 risks arising from business conduct risks and money laundering / financing of terrorism.
In addition, each bank should consider internal and external operational risks faced by it,
including but not limited to operational cyber risk, IT risks, and outsourcing, and each bank is
expected to consider ways in which it can improve its operational resilience. Each bank should
provide details in the ICAAP report on the outcome of its Risk Control Self-Assessment (RCSA)
process to collate bottom-up operational risk drivers across businesses.
77. Each bank should undertake quantitative stress testing based on its historical loss data
and operational risk profile.
E. Credit Concentration Risk
78. Section V.D of the ICAAP Standard requires banks to address weaknesses at the
161

[Document: document.pdf, Page 164]
CBUAE Classification: Public
portfolio level including credit concentrations risk. Credit concentration risk is the incremental
credit loss in a portfolio of credit exposures, caused by high correlation between the credit risk
drivers of those exposures. Such concentration risk arises mostly due to high correlations and
dependencies between individual obligors (name concentration) or between economic sectors
(sectoral concentration). Credit concentration risk can affect a bank’s health or core operations,
liquidity, earnings and capital ratios. The Central Bank considers concentration risk as a key
material Pillar 2 risk for all UAE banks.
79. Consequently, credit concentration arises when large exposures are associated with a
small number of obligors or a small number of sectors, but not only. Credit concentration risk
can arise from a seemingly granular portfolio but with high correlation between the obligors’
risk drivers.
80. In accordance with the Central Bank re Large Exposures - Credit Concentrations Limits
(Notice No.226/2018), an exposure is deemed large if it accounts for more than 10% of a
bank’s capital. Such threshold has been implemented for regulatory purposes. The
measurement of concentration risk for risk management purposes and for determining Pillar 2
risk capital requirements should refer to the wider definition of concentration risk. Each bank
is exposed to a degree of concentration risk, even when complying with the Large Exposure
Regulation.
81. Each bank should perform a detailed risk analysis specific to the Real Estate exposures
(RE) of the bank and the Central Bank re Standards for Real Estate Exposures (Notice No.
5733/2021).
82. Credit concentration risk is a common feature of UAE banks, but currently the Central
Bank regulations for banks do not include an explicit Pillar 1 capital requirement for name and
sector concentration risk. Credit concentration risk is a key prudential risk for which the capital
requirement is at the discretion of banks, and it should be held under Pillar 2. This risk should
warrant particular attention from each bank. In particular:
(i) For the purpose of risk management, each bank should ensure that credit
concentration risk is pro-actively and efficiently addressed. Each bank should
develop policies and procedures for the identification, measurement, monitoring,
and reporting of credit concentration risk. Credit concentration risk arises from
exposures to obligors structured as conglomerates. Therefore each bank should
have a mechanism in place to identify and aggregate exposures across related
entities based on their legal relationships. Data should be aggregated across
systems operated by different business units or entities. This should be indicated
through the bank’s management information system (MIS);
(ii) For the purpose of estimating the Pillar 2 capital associated with credit
concentration risk, each bank should build upon the methodologies employed
for risk management. These methods should be developed further, as deemed
appropriate, in order to fully measure the additional capital. Each bank should
compare several methodologies and propose a choice based on clear and
documented justification. At a minimum, each bank should calculate and report
the additional capital using the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) methodology;
and
(iii) For the purpose of capital planning, each bank should ensure that concentration
risk is taken into account adequately within its ICAAP. Each bank should assess
the amount of capital, which it consider adequate to hold given the level of
concentration risk in their portfolios and given their business plan and the
expected economic environment.
162

[Document: document.pdf, Page 165]
CBUAE Classification: Public
F. Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB)
83. IRRBB is the risk of loss in the banking book caused by changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk can arise both in the banking book and/or the trading book. While interest rate
risk in the trading book is addressed under the Pillar 1 market risk framework, the interest rate
risk in the banking book should be addressed under Pillar 2. Conventional banks refer to this
risk as IRRBB while Islamic banks are exposed to the analogous risk called profit rate risk in
the banking book (PRRBB).
84. Each bank should define a risk appetite pertaining to IRRRB that should be approved
by the Board and implemented through a comprehensive risk appetite framework, i.e. policies
and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB. Each bank should have a process
supported by adequate policies to manage IRRBB appropriately. This involves, as for any other
risk, comprehensive identification, measurement, reporting, monitoring, and mitigation.
85. The measurement process should be based upon several existing Standards and
Guidance:
(i) Central Bank “Standards re Capital Adequacy of Banks in the UAE - ICAAP
Standards”;
(ii) Central Bank “Regulation and Standards re Interest Rate & Rate of Return Risk
in the Banking Book” in 2018 (Notice 3021/2018 and Circular 165/2018);
(iii) Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance in 2022 (Notice
5052/2022); and
(iv) Basel Framework - Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (SRP 31).
Measurement
86. The assessment should include all positions of each bank’s potential basis risk, re-
pricing gaps, commercial margins, gaps for material currencies optionality, and non-maturing
deposits. The quantitative impact analysis should be supported by description and analysis of
the key assumptions made by the bank, in particular, assumptions regarding loan
prepayments, the behaviour of non-maturity deposits (CASA), non-rated sensitive assets,
contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable-rate items, and measuring the
frequency of the interest rate risk in the banking book.
87. DSIBs and other banks with significant interest rate risk (IRR) exposure should
compute the economic value of equity (EVE) at a granular facility level, while non-DSIBs may
compute EVE at exposure level, which is based upon the summation of discounted gap risk
across time buckets, rather than a granular net present value (NPV) estimation at exposure
level.
Scenarios
88. For the purpose of capital calibration, each bank should employ the interest rate shock
scenarios corresponding to Table 12 of Central Bank Model Management Guidance and table
2 of the SRP 31 for their AED and non-AED positions respectively.
89. In addition to the standard shocks prescribed above, DSIBs and other banks with
significant exposure to interest rate risk are expected to apply further shocks/ idiosyncratic
scenarios, which will take into account:
 The bank’s inherent risk profile;
163