[Document: document.pdf, Page 16]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The consolidated balance sheet of the banking group is set out below:
Consolidated Balance sheet of Bank P
Assets Amount (AED)
Loan to customers 250
Total Assets 250
Liabilities and Equities
Depositors 197
Common Equity (CET1) 26
Additional Tier1 (AT1) 7
Tier 2 10
Minority Interest
Common Equity (CET1) 3
Additional Tier1 (AT1) 1
Tier 2 6
Liabilities and Equities 250
For illustrative purposes, Bank S is assumed to have risk-weighted assets of 100. In this example,
the minimum capital requirements of Bank S and the subsidiary’s contribution to the consolidated
requirements are the same since Bank S does not have any loans to Bank P. This means that it
is subject to the following minimum plus capital conservation buffer requirements and has the
following surplus capital:
Minimum and surplus capital of Bank S
Minimum plus Capital
Capital Surplus
conservation Buffer
0.50
CET1 (7% + 2.5%) of 100 = 9.5
(10- 9.5 )
4.00
T1 (8.5%+ 2.5%) of 100 = 11
(10+5-11)
10
TC (10.5% +2.5%) of 100 = 13
(10+5+8 -13)
14

[Document: document.pdf, Page 17]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The following table illustrates how to calculate the amount of capital issued by Bank S to include
in consolidated capital, following the calculation procedure set out in paragraphs 35 to 41 of the
Tier Capital Supply Standards.
Bank S: amount of capital issued to third parties included in the consolidated capital.
Surplus
attributable to third Amount
Total Total Amount parties (i.e. Included in the
Capital Amount Issued to third Surplus (C) amount excluded consolidated
Issued (A) party (B) from consolidated capital
capital) (E) = (B)-(D)
(D) = ( C) * (B/A)
CET1 10 3 0.5 0.15 2.85
T1 15 4 4 1.07 2.93
TC 23 10 10 4.35 5.65
The following table summarizes the components of capital for the consolidated group based on
the amounts calculated in the table above. Additional Tier 1 is calculated as the difference
between Common Equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 and Tier 2 is the difference between Total Capital and
Tier 1.
Bank S: amount of capital issued to third parties included in the consolidated capital.
Total amount of capital
Total amount issued by Amount issued by
issued by parent and
Parent (all of which is to be subsidiaries to third parties
Capital subsidiary to be
included in consolidated to be included in the
included in the
capital) consolidated capital
consolidated capital
CET1 26 2.85 28.85
AT1 7 0.08 7.08
T1 33 2.93 35.93
T2 10 2.72 12.72
TC 43 5.65 48.65
15

[Document: document.pdf, Page 18]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 5: Threshold Deduction
This Appendix is meant to clarify the reporting of threshold deduction and calculation of the 10%
limit on significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions
(banks, insurance and other financial entities); and the 10% limit on deferred tax assets arising
from temporary differences.
CET1 Capital (prior to regulatory deductions) 1000
Regulatory deductions: 300
Total CET1 after the regulatory adjustments above (CET1C) 700
Total amount of significant investments in the common share of banking, financial
and insurance entities 150
Total amount of Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences 150
DTA that rely on future profitability Significant investments in the
and arise from temporary difference unconsolidated financial institutions
150 150
Excess over Excess over
Amount below 10% of CET1C Amount below 10% of CET1C
10% of CET1 10% of CET1
70 70
C: C:
Deduct from Aggregate the amount below 10% threshold Deduct from
CET1C 140 (70+70) CET1C
Calculate 17.65 % of CET1*
CET1* = 400 (1000-300-150-150) or
CET1* = CET1 D (700-80-80) – Aggregated amount below 10% threshold
(140)
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
below 17.65% of CET1* above 17.65% of CET1*
Risk Weight (250%) Deduct from CET1 D
70.60 69.40 (140-70.60)
*This is a “hypothetical” amount of CET1 that is used only for the purpose of determining the
deduction of above two items for the aggregate limit. Amount of CET1 = Total CET1 (prior to
deduction) – All the deduction except the threshold deduction (i.e. all deduction outlined in para
44 to 68 of the Tier Capital Supply Standards) minus the total amount of both DTA that rely on
future profitability and arise from temporary difference and significant investments in the
unconsolidated financial institutions.
16

[Document: document.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 6: Effective Countercyclical Buffer
Assume a bank has the following capital ratios
Capital Base Minimum Capital Bank's Capital Ratio
Requirements
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 7.00% 9.50%
Tier 1 Capital Ratio 8.50% 0.00%
Tier 2 Capital Ratio 2.00% 4.00%
Total Capital Ratio 10.50% 13.50%
From the above table, the bank has fulfilled all minimum capital requirements. In addition, the
bank has to meet the additional capital buffers:
Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) 2.50%
Countercyclical Buffer 0.00%
D- SIB 1.00%
Aggregated Buffer requirement (effective CCB) 3.50%
The table below shows the adjusted quartiles accordingly:
Freely available Minimum Capital Conservation
CET 1 Ratio Ratios (expressed as a percentage of
earnings)
Within 1st quartile of buffer: 0.0 % - 0.875% 100 %
Within 2nd quartile of buffer: > 0.875% - 1.75% 80 %
Within 3rd quartile of buffer: > 1.75% - 2.625% 60 %
Within 4th quartile of buffer: > 2.625% - 3.5% 40 %
Above top of the buffer: > 3.5% 0 %
As the bank does not have Additional Tier 1, the bank has to use 8.5% of its available CET1 to
fulfill the minimum Tier 1 requirement of 8.5%. Only the proportion of CET1 that is not allocated
to fulfill the minimum capital requirements is freely available to fulfill the buffer requirement. For
this bank, 1% CET1 is freely available, because the bank already used 8.5% of its CET1 to fulfill
the Tier 1 ratio. (9.5% available CET1 - 8.5% CET1 required to fulfill the Tier 1 minimum
requirement of 8.5%).
Impact: The bank breaches the effective CCB with 1% freely available CET1. Capital conservation
is required by at least 80% of the bank’s earnings. Distributions to shareholders is limited to
maximal 20% of the bank’s earnings (Central Bank approval of dividends still required).
17

[Document: document.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
II. Tier Capital Instruments
I. Introduction
1. This guidance explains how banks should comply with the Tier Capital Instruments
Standard. It must be read in conjunction with the Capital Regulation and Standards for Capital
Adequacy of Banks in the UAE. It also ensures that banks issue robust and simple Tier capital
instruments.
2. A bank needs to take into consideration the below points when issuing capital publicly or
privately:
a. The Central Bank expects that issuers will formulate the terms and conditions so that they
are not complex, but as simple and as clear as possible.
b. Prudential clauses of importance from a prudential point of view should not be written in
italics. They should also not be worded in a way that makes it unclear whether they do
actually apply (e.g. ‘it is expected that’, ‘if required by the regulation’, etc.). Terms and
conditions must be worded clearly.
c. The wording used must be in accordance with that in the Capital Standards/ Guidance.
d. The text should avoid making references to ‘as determined by the bank’ or to regulatory
reporting dates. All requirements must be fulfilled at any time.
e. It is not desirable to specify the reference to say ‘under applicable law’ or ‘if required by
the applicable banking rules’ when it is clear that legal requirements come directly from
the Central Bank, Capital Regulation, Standards or as Guidance.
f. A detailed list may easily create the impression that the list maybe exhaustive. The bank
has to clearly note when a list is not exhaustive.
Distributable Items:
3. The definition of distributable items may change when the Central Bank introduces the
solo level concept.
Subordination:
4. Additional Tier 1 instruments will rank below Tier 2 instruments by virtue of subordination.
The instrument should not be subject to set-off or netting arrangements that would undermine the
instrument's capacity to absorb losses.
Redemption Notices:
5. Where a notice has not been revoked as of the relevant date, it follows that a payment is
due to the holder. Any non-payment thereafter may trigger an enforcement event. Any notice for
redemption should become void and null as soon as the Central Bank declares that a PONV
trigger event has occurred.
Call of Instruments:
a. Optional Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument at its option but only
after a period of 5 years.
18

[Document: document.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
b. Regulatory Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument in case of a capital
event so that they become or, as appropriate, remain, qualified regulatory capital.
However, the amount in case of a capital event can be the outstanding amount or the
amount that qualifies as regulatory capital, if some amount of the instrument is held by the
issuer or whose purchase is funded by the issuer, save where such non-qualification is only
as a result of any applicable limitation on the amount of such capital.
c. Tax Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instruments in case of a tax event.
A tax event may occur at any time on or after the issue date. A tax event can occur as a
result of a change in the applicable tax treatment of the instrument.
Note that both the optional call and the tax call require the Central Bank’s approval.
Changes of Terms and conditions:
a. Insignificant Changes to Terms and Conditions (Variation):
The issuer may vary the terms and conditions of the instrument subject to the condition of
redemption in the Tier capital instrument Standard. Variation of the terms and conditions of the
instrument can occur on optional call regulatory call, or tax call. Changes must be legally
enforceable.
b. Significant Changes to Terms and Conditions:
Significant changes to the terms and conditions of the instrument will require the approval of the
holders. Every instrument that undergoes significant changes needs to meet all requirements of
the Tier Capital Instruments Standard.
Every instrument with changed terms and conditions need to be re-approved by the Central Bank
by applying Stage 2 of the Approval Process in Appendix B of the Tier Capital Instruments
Standard (Stage 1 of the Approval Process can be omitted in this case).
Coupon Payments:
6. No provision should link a change in payments to contractual, statutory or other
obligations, as payments are fully discretionary. Payments should also not be linked to payments
on other Additional Tier 1 instruments.
Dividend and Redemption Restrictions:
7. Dividend stopper arrangements that prevent for example dividend payments on common
shares are not prohibited by the Central Bank. Furthermore, dividend stopper arrangements that
prevent dividend payments on other Additional Tier 1 instruments are not prohibited by Central
Bank. However, stoppers must not impede the full discretion that bank must have at all times to
cancel distributions/payments on the instrument, nor must they act in a way that could hinder the
recapitalization of the bank. For example, it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional
Tier 1 instrument to:
i. attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments on this other
instrument were not also fully discretionary;
ii. prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond the point in time
that dividends/coupons on the instrument are resumed;
iii. impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity (including
acquisitions/disposals).
8. A dividend stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the payment of
19

[Document: document.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary share buybacks. The dividend stopper will
remain until one coupon following the dividend stopper date has been made in full or an amount
equal to the same has been duly set aside or provided for in full for the benefit of the holders of
the instrument.
Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA):
To further clarify the MDA’s calculation, below is an example of the calculation:
Bank Capital Holdings 14.0%
Bank Capital Requirements %
CET1 7.0%
AT1 1.5%
Tier 2 2.0%
Pillar 2 0.0%
Capital Conservation Buffer 2.5%
Countercyclical Buffer 0.000%
D-SIB Buffer 1.5%
Total 14.5%
Combined Buffer 4.0%
Quartile of Buffer 1.0%
Bank Capital Gap 0.5%
Quartile 1 Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Quartile 4
0.0 1.0% 1.0% 2.0% 2.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0%
The bank first will need to fulfill all minimum requirements. As the bank only has CET1 capital
available, it needs to use CET1 capital to fulfill all minimum capital requirements
(10.5%=7%+1.5%+2%). After fulfilling the minimum capital requirements, the bank has still 3.5%
(=14.0%-10.5%) CET1 capital available to fulfill the combined buffer requirements of 4%. Hence,
the Bank’s capital gap is 0.5%.
From the table above 3.5% means that the bank is in the fourth of the buffer requirements.
Therefore, the MDA is restricted to 60% of the bank’s earnings, which means the bank may
distribute no other restrictions and limitations considered, up to 60% of the earnings in the form
of dividend, Additional Tier 1 payments, and variable remuneration.
Note that items considered to be distributions include dividends and share buybacks,
discretionary payments on other Tier 1 capital instruments and discretionary bonus payments to
staff. Payments that do not result in a depletion of CET1, which may for example include certain
scrip dividends, are not considered distributions.
20

[Document: document.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Note also that earnings are defined as distributable profits calculated prior to the deduction of
elements subject to the restriction on distributions. Earnings are calculated after the tax, which
would have been reported had none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact
of making, such distributions are reversed out. Where a bank does not have positive earnings
and has a CET1 ratio less than 9.5%, it would be restricted from making positive net distributions.
Gross-up Clauses:
Gross-up clauses for Additional Tier 1:
9. Gross up clauses are acceptable only if:
i. It is activated by decision of the local tax authority of the issuer and not the investor,
ii. The increased payments do not exceed distributable items,
iii. The gross-up is in relation to the dividend and not the principal.
Gross up Clauses for Tier 2:
10. The second condition related to distributable items is not relevant for Tier 2 instruments,
as Tier 2 coupons are not restricted by the amount of available distributable items. Therefore, Tier
2 gross-up clauses can be considered as acceptable if they are activated by a decision of the
local tax authority of the issuer, and if they relate to dividend and not on principal. The other two
conditions on gross-up clauses are, however, activation is still required by a local tax authority of
the issuer and not the investor, and the gross-up is in relation to the dividend payments only not
principal.
Point of Non-Viability (PONV):
11. The issuance of any new shares as a result of the Point of Non-Viability must occur prior
to any public sector injection of capital so that the capital provided by the public sector is not
diluted.
Further guidance on grandfathering:
12. If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for grandfathering begins its final five-year amortisation
period prior to 1st January 2018, the base for grandfathering in this case must take into account
the amortised amount, not the full nominal amount. As for the rate, if a Tier 2 instrument eligible
for grandfathering begins its final amortisation period on 1st January 2018, then individual
instruments will continue to be amortised at a rate of 20% per year while the grandfathering cap
will be reduced at a rate of 10% per year. Note that each tranche needs to be treated as a separate
tranche.
Amortisation of Tier 2 instruments:
13. During the last 5 years of the eligibility before maturity, the eligibility of Tier 2 instruments
is written down by 20% per year, i.e. the eligible amount is calculated by multiplying:
i. The nominal amount of the instruments on the first day of the final five year period of their
contractual maturity divided by the number of calendar days in that period;
ii. The number of remaining calendar days until the contractual maturity of the instruments.
21

[Document: document.pdf, Page 24]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Documents required to be submitted for the application to issue new Tier Capital
Instruments
1. The CN-01 form should be completed, filled and signed by the bank's Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and Head
of Risk.
2. Full terms and conditions, together with the risk factors relating to the instrument.
i. Instruments of Islamic banks issued through an SPV must also provide the contract
between the bank and the SPV
3. Shareholder Approval:
i. Tier capital instruments require shareholder approval.
ii. The approval shall relate to an issuance of the specific planned Tier capital instrument
(Additional Tier 1 or subordinated Tier 2). Moreover, the approval should clearly mention
that the instrument is subordinated; coupon payments may not be paid under certain
circumstances, and contains a Point of Non-Viability (PONV) condition.
4. Legal opinion letters:
i. Legal Opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
terms and conditions are compliant with the requirements detailed in the Capital
Regulations, Standards and Guidance.
ii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
obligations contained in terms and conditions will constitute legal, valid, binding and
enforceable obligations.
iii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
Self-Assessment of the issuing bank meets the Conditions and the Capital Regulations
5. Capital planning and forecast:
The Business as Usual (BAU) case should be formulated, such as:
a) Amount of assumed issuance and the expected issuance date (e.g. Q1 2018).
b) Capital structure: % in CET1, AT1, Tier 2 and deductions (using Basel 3 capital
components)
c) Five (5) year forecast of the Balance sheet, Profit & loss P&L, Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
d) Amortization of Tier Capital Issuances: Subordinated Tier 2 in the last 5 years prior to
maturity and AT1 Instruments, if they fall under a grandfathering rule, for example, 10%
per year.
e) Key assumptions and analysis (e.g. on balance growth, asset structure, conversation
factors CCF for off balance, operational and market risk, total assets growth, of which
businesses that will be the main driver for such growth) and CRWA (i.e. on balance sheet
exposure in different industry) in numerical as well as qualitative aspect.
6. Stress Testing Scenarios:
The Stress Testing should be submitted in form of a presentation including the underlying data in
Excel sheet.
Two Scenarios should be provided as part of the presentation:
a) Top 2 customers defaulting (point in time analysis permitted: End of Year): Definition of
top 2 customers; name of top 2 customers; exposure (including on and off balance
exposures); what type of eligible collateral and value of collateral, with two sub-scenarios:
i. With average provisioning level of similar assets, and
ii. 75% provisioning level
b) Central Bank’s Macro-Economic Stress Test
 Assumptions and results of the latest Macroeconomic stress tests performed by the
Central Bank.
22

[Document: document.pdf, Page 25]
CBUAE Classification: Public
7. Non-Funding Notice: Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises
control or significant influence can have purchased the instrument, nor can the bank directly
or indirectly have funded the purchase of the instrument.
Private Placements
 Offer letter is required for private placements, including risk factors and the bank's financial
and risk situation.
 Market Conformity Analysis: The bank has to provide evidence on why the pricing of the
instrument conforms to the market rate.
II. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: The last bullet point mentions “Liability accounted instruments must set the
loss absorption trigger at a level of 7.625%.” Is it Central Bank decision to have this trigger
set at 7.625%? Are any triggers likely to be set for equity accounted instruments?
It is Central Bank’s decision for the trigger level. However, the trigger level derives directly from
Basel. Minimum capital requirement plus 0.625%. Note, that the consultation documents do not
consult on a trigger for equity accounted AT1. However, in particular in conjunction with the
development of a recovery/ resolution regulation, the introduction of a trigger level may also be
discussed again, as pointed out in the presentation that was circulated with the Tier capital
instrument documents.
Question 2: Point of Non-Viability mentions that “A Point of Non-Viability means that the
Regulator has determined that the issuer has or will become, Non-Viable without: (a) a
Write-down; or (b) a public injection of capital (or equivalent support).”. We need
clarification as to whether the PONV will be determined by the regulator or the issuer.
Also, please advise under what circumstance will partial Write-down be permitted. The
regulator determines whether the bank is non-viable or not. Partial write-down will be permitted
only for exceptional cases. Explicit examples will not be provided to prevent any expectation.
Question 3: Appendix A: Application Process 1.4: It is mentioned that “Stress Testing with
a stress scenario of top 2 customers are defaulting”. Since many UAE banks have
concentrations in this area, what loss rate needs to be applied in this stress scenario?
Current status quo is two sub scenarios: 75% loss rate and average loss rate of the bank for such
customers.
23

[Document: document.pdf, Page 26]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Credit Risk
I. Introduction
This section provides the guidance for the computation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets
(CRWAs) under the Standardised Approach (SA). This guidance should be read in conjunction
with the Central Bank’s Standard on Credit Risk.
A bank must apply risk weights to its on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet items using
the risk- weighted assets approach. Risk weights are based on credit ratings or fixed risk weights
and are broadly aligned with the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.
A bank may use the ratings determined by an External Credit Assessment Institution
(ECAI) for credit ratings. In general, banks should only use solicited ratings from recognised
ECAIs for the purposes of calculating capital requirement under the SA. However, in exceptional
cases, the bank may use unsolicited ratings with the Central Bank approval.
Note that all exposures subject to the SA should be risk weighted net of specific
allowances and interest in suspense. The guidance must be read in conjunction with
Securitisation, Equity Investments in Funds, Counterparty Credit Risk and Credit Valuation
Guidance.
The guidance set out in this section applies to all exposures in the banking book.
Exposures in the trading book should be captured as part of a bank’s market risk capital
calculations.
II. Clarification and Guiding Principles
A. Claims on Sovereigns
UAE Sovereigns: The UAE Sovereign asset class consists of exposures to Federal
Government and Emirates governments.
Federal Government includes all the UAE Federal entities and Central Bank of the UAE
(Central Bank). Banks have transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation for
exposures to Federal Government that receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in
AED or USD and funded in AED or USD. However, any claim on UAE Federal Government in
foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted according to the published credit risk
rating of UAE Federal Government. In the absence of solicited rating for UAE Federal
Government, unsolicited ratings are permissible for assigning risk weights for UAE Federal
Government exposures.
Emirates Governments’ exposures include exposures to the Ruler and the Crown Prince
of each emirate acting in the capacity as ruler and crown prince, as well as exposures to the
ministries, municipalities and other Emirates government departments. Banks have transition
period of 7 years from the date of implementation for exposures to Emirates Governments that
receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in AED or USD and funded in AED or USD.
Any claim on Emirates governments in a foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted
according to the rating of the Emirate Government.
GCC Sovereigns: If the regulators in GCC exercise their discretion to permit banks in
their jurisdiction to allocate a lower risk weight to claims on that jurisdiction’s sovereign,
24

[Document: document.pdf, Page 27]
CBUAE Classification: Public
denominated in the domestic currency of that jurisdiction and funded in that currency, the same,
lower risk weight may be allocated to such claims (e.g. 0% assigned to the Government of Saudi
Arabia if the exposure is denominated and funded in SAR). This is limited only to GCC sovereign
exposures and this lower risk weight may be extended to the risk weighting of collateral and
guarantees (refer to section on credit risk mitigation).
All other exposures to sovereigns should be risk weighted according to the sovereign
rating even if the national supervisory authority adopts preferential risk weights.
B. Claims on Public Sector Entities (PSEs)
Non-Commercial PSEs
Non-Commercial PSEs include administrative bodies responsible to the UAE Federal
Government, to the Emirates Governments, or to local authorities and other non-commercial
undertakings owned by the Federal governments, Emirates Governments or local authorities.
These non-commercial PSEs do not have specific revenue- raising powers or specific institutional
arrangements the effect of which is to reduce their risks of default. The risk of non-commercial
PSE exposures is not equivalent to the risk of sovereign exposures and hence the treatment of
claims on sovereigns cannot be applied to non-commercial PSE. However, in exceptional cases,
a Non-Commercial PSE may receive the same treatment as its sovereign, if the entity has proven
formal arrangements in place to the effect that there is no distinction between the risk of the entity
and the risk of its sovereign. The Central Bank's GRE List would reflect this accordingly.
If the UAE borrower satisfies the criteria in paragraph 13, the risk weight shall be the same
as that for claims on banks. However, the preferential treatment for short-term claims on banks
may not be applied. In particular, unrated non-commercial PSE qualify for 50% risk weight. The
criteria are based on the principle that non-commercial PSEs qualify for lower risk weights
because they have significantly lower risk than a commercial company does. In addition, banks
are specifically required to ensure compliance with other aspects of the banking regulations when
lending to these entities, for example, but not limited to, the Central Bank large exposure
regulations.
The alternative criteria listed are to be applied in determining whether an entity qualifies
for treatment as a non-commercial PSE. The Central Bank provides a list (so-called GRE List) to
all the banks in the UAE which includes non-commercial PSEs.
i. Direct government (Federal or Emirate) ownership >50% directly or through a qualifying
PSE that itself is majority owned by government.
ii. An entity whose complete activities are functions of a government.
iii. Its services are of public benefit including when services are sold directly to the public
(e.g. electricity and water). The service provided should be of substantial public benefit
and the entity should have a monopolistic nature and there should be a significant
likelihood that the government would not let the entity go bankrupt.
iv. Not listed on any stock exchange.
v. Provides internal services to parent or sister companies only, and the parent company is
itself a non-commercial PSE.
vi. The function of the company is of a non-commercial nature and does not operate in a
competitive market.
25

[Document: document.pdf, Page 28]
CBUAE Classification: Public
vii. Does not operate overseas.
In the case of a UAE sovereign guarantee given to a non-commercial PSE, with the Central
Bank approval, the guarantee may be treated as eligible credit risk mitigation (CRM) to reduce
the exposure provided the bank ensures compliance with the entire minimum regulatory
requirements and operational requirements stated in the credit risk standard.
Government Related Entities (GRE)
These are commercial undertakings that are fully owned or more than 50% in ownership
by Federal governments, or by Emirates governments. As these entities function as a corporate
in the competitive markets even though the government is the major shareholder, Central Bank
requires such exposures to be classified under GRE and get the same treatment of claims on
corporate with the appropriate risk weights based on the credit rating of the entity.
All banks must comply with the latest version of the GRE list for classification and risk
weighting of entities. Banks that have information that would lead to the addition (or removal) of
an entity to (or from) the GRE list must submit such information to the Central Bank. All banks
must comply with the GRE list unless any addition or removal of entities is reflected in the GRE
list.
Banks Internal audit/compliance department should perform regular reviews to ensure
the PSE and GRE classification complies with the Central Bank GRE list.
C. Claims on multilateral development banks (MDBs)
Exposures to MDBs shall in general be treated similar to claim on banks, but without using
the preferential treatment for short term claims. However, highly rated MDBs, which meet certain
criteria specified below, are eligible for a preferential 0% risk weight.
i. Very high quality long-term issuer ratings, i.e. a majority of an MDB's external
assessments must be AAA;
ii. Shareholder structure is comprised of a significant proportion of sovereigns with long-
term issuer credit assessments of AA- or better, or the majority of the MDB's fund-
raising is in the form of paid-in equity/capital and there is little or no leverage;
iii. Strong shareholder support demonstrated by the amount of paid-in capital contributed
by the shareholders; the amount of further capital the MDBs have the right to call, if
required, to repay their liabilities; and continued capital contributions and new pledges
from sovereign shareholders;
iv. Adequate level of capital and liquidity (a case-by-case approach is necessary in order
to assess whether each MDB's capital and liquidity are adequate), and
v. Strict statutory lending requirements and conservative financial policies, which would
include among other conditions a structured approval process, internal
creditworthiness and risk concentration limits (per country, sector, and individual
exposure and credit category), large exposures approval by the board or a committee
of the board, fixed repayment schedules, effective monitoring of use of proceeds,
status review process, and rigorous assessment of risk and provisioning to loan loss
reserve.
26

[Document: document.pdf, Page 29]
CBUAE Classification: Public
MDBs currently eligible for 0% risk weight are the World Bank Group comprised of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation,
the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Development Association,
the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European
Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank,
the International Finance Facility for Immunisation and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
The list of MDBs is by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and can be found
on the website www.bis.org. All banks are required to refer to and comply with the BCBS list.
Whilst the BCBS evaluates the eligibility of the entities on a case-by-case basis, the Central Bank
has no role in the assessment and decision of entities being eligible for 0% risk weight.
D. Claims on Banks
The types of claims that fall under this asset class are claims not limited to those due from
banks, nostro accounts, certificates of deposit (CD) issued by banks, and repurchase agreements
(repos). A risk weight of 50% (long term) and 20% (short term) is applied to claims on unrated
banks. However, this treatment is subject to the provision that no claim on an unrated bank may
receive a risk weight lower than that applied to claims on its sovereign of incorporation.
Exposure to intra-group of the bank have to be risk weighted according to the external
rating of the counterparty entity (e.g. exposures to the head office shall receive the risk weight
according to the rating of the head office).
E. Claims on Securities Firms
In addition to providing loans to other banks in the interbank market, banks provide loans to
securities firms. The securities firms use these loans to fund the purchase of securities. Exposures
to these securities firms shall be treated as claims on banks if these firms are subject to prudential
standards and a level of supervision that is equivalent to those applicable to banks. Such
supervision must include at least both capital and liquidity requirements. Exposures to all other
securities firms that are not treated as claims on banks will be treated as exposures to corporates.
F. Claims on Corporates
For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, exposures to corporates include, but
are not limited to, exposures (loans, bonds, receivables, etc.) to incorporated entities,
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, trusts, funds and other entities with similar
characteristics, except those which qualify for one of the other exposure classes. The corporate
exposure class does not include exposures to individuals.
Claims on corporates may be risk- weighted based on the entity’s external credit rating
assessment. The Central Bank may increase the standard risk weight for unrated claims where it
judges that a higher risk weight is warranted by the overall default experience. As part of the
supervisory review process, the Central Bank may also consider whether the credit quality of
corporate claims held by banks warrants a risk weight higher than 100%.
G. Claims included in the Regulatory Retail Portfolios
To qualify for a 75% risk weight in the regulatory retail portfolio, claims must meet the four
27

[Document: document.pdf, Page 30]
CBUAE Classification: Public
criteria stated in the Credit Risk Standard (orientation criterion, product criterion, granularity
criterion and value criterion). All other retail claims should be risk weighted at 100%. For
granularity criterion and value criterion, the aggregated exposure means gross amount (i.e. not
taking any credit risk mitigation into account) of all forms of retail exposures, excluding residential
real estate exposures. In case of off-balance sheet items, the gross amount will be calculated
after applying credit conversion factors. In addition, “to one counterparty” means one or several
entities that may be considered as a single beneficiary (e.g. in the case of a small business that
is affiliated to another small business, the limit would apply to the bank’s aggregated exposure on
both businesses).
Claims secured by residential property and past due retail loans are to be excluded from
the overall regulatory retail portfolio for risk weighting purposes. These are addressed separately
in the asset classes for residential property or commercial real estate.
H. Claims Secured by Residential Property
Claims secured by residential property are defined as loans secured by residential
property that is either self-occupied or rented out. The property must be fully mortgaged in favor
of the bank.
The Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is the outstanding loan exposure divided by the value of the
property. The value of the property will be maintained at the value at origination unless the Central
Bank requires banks to revise the property value downward. The value must be adjusted if an
extraordinary, idiosyncratic event occurs resulting in a permanent reduction of the property value.
Such adjustment must be notified to the Central Bank. If the value has been adjusted downwards,
a subsequent upwards adjustment can be made but not to a higher value than the value at
origination.
A 35% risk weighting shall apply to eligible residential claims if the LTV ratio is less than
85% and the exposure is less than AED 10 million. When the loan amount exceeds AED 10 million
and the LTV is below 85%, the loan amount up to AED 10 million will receive 35% risk weight and
the remaining amount above AED 10 million receives 100% risk weight.
A risk weight of 75% may be applied by banks that do not hold information regarding
LTVs for individual exposures
For residential exposures that meet the criteria for regulatory retail claims and have an
LTV greater than 85%, the 75% risk weight must be applied to the whole loan, i.e. the loan should
not be split.
The risk-weights in this asset class may be applied to a limit of four individual properties
made to a single individual customer that are owner- occupied or rented out by a retail borrower.
Any additional exposure to a customer with loans for four individual properties shall be classified
as a claim on a commercial property and risk weighted with 100%.
I. Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate is defined as a loan granted by a bank to a customer specifically
for the purpose of buying or constructing commercial property including residential towers and
mixed use towers.
J. Past Due Loans
Risk weights of past due loans depend on the degree of provision coverage on the claim.
For any past due loan, 100% Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) should be applied for the off-
28