
confidential. The Central Bank will review the information and provide approval if the bank does
not need to disclose those specific items, but should disclose more general information about the
subject matter of the requirement instead. The bank should also explain to Central Bank the
specific items of information that cannot be disclosed and the reasons for this.
B. Guiding principles for banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures
13. The Central Bank has agreed upon five guiding principles for banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures.
Pillar 3 complements the minimum risk-based capital requirements and other quantitative
requirements (Pillar 1) and the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and aims to promote market
discipline by providing meaningful regulatory information to investors and other interested parties
on a consistent and comparable basis. The guiding principles aim to provide a firm foundation for
achieving transparent, high-quality Pillar 3 risk disclosures that will enable users to better
understand and compare a bank’s business and its risks.
14. The principles are as follows:
Principle 1: Disclosures should be clear
Disclosures should be presented in a form that is understandable to key stakeholders (i.e.
investors, analysts, financial customers and others) and communicated through an accessible
medium. Important messages should be highlighted and easy to find. Complex issues should be
explained in simple language with important terms defined. Related risk information should be
presented together.
Principle 2: Disclosures should be comprehensive
Disclosures should describe a bank’s main activities and all significant risks, supported by relevant
underlying data and information. Significant changes in risk exposures between reporting periods
should be described, together with the appropriate response by management.
Disclosures should provide sufficient information in both qualitative and quantitative terms on a
bank’s processes and procedures for identifying, measuring and managing those risks. The level
of detail of such disclosure should be proportionate to a bank’s complexity.
184

[Document: document.pdf, Page 187]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Approaches to disclosure should be sufficiently flexible to reflect how senior management and the
board of directors internally assess and manage risks and strategy, helping users to better
understand a bank’s risk tolerance/appetite.
Principle 3: Disclosures should be meaningful to users
Disclosures should highlight a bank’s most significant current and emerging risks and how those
risks are managed, including information that is likely to receive market attention. Where
meaningful, linkages should be provided to line items on the balance sheet or the income
statement. Disclosures that do not add value to users’ understanding or do not communicate
useful information should be avoided. Furthermore, information, which is no longer meaningful or
relevant to users, should be removed.
Principle 4: Disclosures should be consistent over time
Disclosures should be consistent over time to enable key stakeholders to identify trends in a
bank’s risk profile across all significant aspects of its business. Additions, deletions and other
important changes in disclosures from previous reports, including those arising from a bank’s
specific, regulatory or market developments, should be highlighted and explained.
Principle 5: Disclosures should be comparable across banks
The level of detail and the format of presentation of disclosures should enable key stakeholders
to perform meaningful comparisons of business activities, prudential metrics, risks and risk
management between banks and across jurisdictions.
C. Presentation of the disclosure requirements
Templates and tables
15. The disclosure requirements are presented either in the form of templates or of tables.
Templates should be completed with quantitative data in accordance with the definitions provided.
Tables generally relate to qualitative requirements, but quantitative information is also required in
some instances. Banks may choose the format they prefer when presenting the information
requested in tables.
16. In line with Principle 3 above, the information provided in the templates and tables should
be meaningful to users. The disclosure requirements in this guidance that necessitate an
assessment from banks are specifically identified. When preparing these individual tables and
templates, banks will need to consider carefully how widely the disclosure requirement should
apply. If a bank considers that the information requested in a template or table would not be
meaningful to users, for example because the exposures and RWA amounts are deemed
immaterial, it may choose not to disclose part or all of the information requested. In such
circumstances, however, the bank will be required to explain in a narrative commentary why it
considers such information not to be meaningful to users. It should describe the portfolios
excluded from the disclosure requirement and the aggregate total RWAs those portfolios
represent.
Templates with a fixed format
17. Where the format of a template is described as fixed, banks should complete the fields in
accordance with the instructions given.
18. If a row/column is not considered to be relevant to a bank’s activities the bank may delete
the specific row/column from the template, but the numbering of the subsequent rows and
columns should not be altered. Banks may add extra rows and extra columns to fixed format
templates if they wish to provide additional detail to a disclosure requirement by adding sub-rows
185

[Document: document.pdf, Page 188]
CBUAE Classification: Public
or columns, but the numbering of prescribed rows and columns in the template should not be
altered.
Templates/tables with a flexible format
19. Where the format of a template is described as flexible, banks may present the required
information either in the format provided in this guidance or in one that better suits the bank. The
format for the presentation of qualitative information in tables is not prescribed.
20. However, where a customized presentation of the information is used, the bank should
provide information comparable with that required in the disclosure requirement (i.e. at a similar
level of granularity as if the template/table were completed as presented in this document).
Signposting
21. Banks may disclose in a document separate from their Pillar 3 report (e.g. in a bank’s
annual report or through published regulatory reporting) the templates/tables with a flexible
format, and the fixed format templates where the criteria in paragraph 22 are met. In such
circumstances, the specific Pillar 3 table(s) may form a section in a bank’s financial reporting, but
the full table will be needed to be disclosed in the Pillar 3 tables separately as well.
22. The disclosure requirements for templates with a fixed format can be disclosed by banks
in a separate document other than the Pillar 3 report provided all of the following criteria are met:
• the information contained in the signposted document is equivalent in terms of presentation and
content to that required in the fixed template and allows users to make meaningful comparisons
with information provided by banks disclosing the fixed format templates;
• the information contained in the signposted document is based on the same scope of
consolidation as the one used in the disclosure requirement;
• the disclosure in the signposted document is mandatory.
Banks should note that although signposting may be allowed in the annual report, the bank would
still need to disclose this table separately in the Pillar 3 Disclosure along with all other tables
mentioned in paragraph 27 below.
23. Banks can only make use of signposting to another document if the level of assurance on
the reliability of data in the separate document are equivalent to, or greater than, the internal
assurance level required for the Pillar 3 report (see sections on reporting and assurance of Pillar
3 data above).
Qualitative narrative to accompany the disclosure requirements
24. Banks are expected to supplement the quantitative information provided in both fixed and
flexible templates with a narrative commentary to explain at least any significant changes between
reporting periods and any other issues that management considers to be of interest to market
participants. The form taken by this additional narrative is at the bank’s discretion.
25. Disclosure of additional quantitative and qualitative information will provide market
participants with a broader picture of a bank´s risk position and promote market discipline.
26. Additional voluntary risk disclosures allow banks to present information relevant to their
business model that may not be adequately captured by the standardised requirements.
Additional quantitative information that banks choose to disclose should provide sufficient
meaningful information to enable market participants to understand and analyze any figures
provided. It should also be accompanied by a qualitative discussion. Any additional disclosure
should comply with the five guiding principles set out in paragraph 14 above.
186

[Document: document.pdf, Page 189]
CBUAE Classification: Public
D. Format and reporting frequency of each disclosure requirement
27. The schedule below presents a summary of the disclosure requirements, whether they are required in a fixed or flexible format.
It also lists the publishing frequency associated with each template and table. Please also note that the below tables will be available
as an Excel file on the Central Bank alert portal on the Central Bank's website for download.
Please note: It is mandatory for all local banks to report all tables as per below schedule. It is also mandatory for branches of foreign
banks with RWA of more than AED 5 billion to report all tables as per below schedule.
Branches of foreign banks with RWA of less than AED 5 billion should report the below tables highlighted in Yellow and BOLD only
as mandatory.
Disclosure
Topic
Table Information Overview Format Frequency
KM1 Key metrics (at consolidated group level) Fixed Quarterly
Overview of risk
OVA Bank risk management approach Flexible Annual
management and RWA
OV1 Overview of RWA Fixed Quarterly
Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes of
consolidation and mapping of financial statement categories
Linkages between financial LI1 with regulatory risk categories Flexible Annual
statements and regulatory Main sources of differences between regulatory exposure
exposures LI2 amounts and carrying values in financial statements Flexible Annual
Explanations of differences between accounting and regulatory
LIA exposure amounts Flexible Annual
Prudential valuation
adjustments PV1 Prudent valuation adjustments Fixed Annual
CC1 Composition of regulatory capital Fixed Semi-annual
Composition of capital CC2 Reconciliation of regulatory capital to balance sheet Flexible Semi-annual
CCA Main features of regulatory capital instruments Fixed Semi-annual
Geographical distribution of credit exposures used in the
Macroprudential CCyB1 countercyclical buffer Flexible Semi-annual
Supervisory measures Summary comparison of accounting assets vs leverage ratio
LR1 exposure measure (January 2014 standards) Fixed Quarterly
Leverage ratio common disclosure template (January 2014
Leverage ratio
LR2 standards) Fixed Quarterly
187

[Document: document.pdf, Page 190]
CBUAE Classification: Public
LIQA Liquidity risk management Flexible Annual
LIQ1 Liquidity Coverage Ratio Fixed Quarterly
Liquidity LIQ2 Net Stable Funding Ratio Fixed Semi-annual
CRA General qualitative information about credit risk Flexible Annual
CR1 Credit quality of assets Fixed Semi-annual
CR2 Changes in the stock of defaulted loans and debt securities Fixed Semi-annual
CRB Additional disclosure related to credit quality of assets Flexible Annual
CRC Qualitative information on the mitigation of credit risk Flexible Annual
CR3 Credit risk mitigation techniques – overview Fixed Semi-annual
Qualitative disclosures on banks' use of external credit ratings
Credit risk CRD under the standardised approach for credit risk Flexible Annual
Standardised approach - credit risk exposure and CRM
CR4 effects Fixed Semi-annual
Standardised approach - exposures by asset classes and
CR5 risk weights Fixed Semi-annual
CCRA Qualitative disclosure related to CCR Flexible Annual
CCR1 Analysis of CCR by approach Fixed Semi-annual
CCR2 Credit valuation adjustment capital charge Fixed Semi-annual
Standardised approach - CCR exposures by regulatory portfolio
CCR3 and risk weights Fixed Semi-annual
Counterparty credit risk
(CCR)
CCR5 Composition of collateral for CCR exposure Flexible Semi-annual
CCR6 Credit derivatives exposures Flexible Semi-annual
CCR8 Exposures to central counterparties Fixed Semi-annual
SECA Qualitative disclosures related to securitisation exposures Flexible Annual
SEC1 Securitisation exposures in the banking book Flexible Semi-annual
SEC2 Securitisation exposures in the trading book Flexible Semi-annual
Securitisation Securitisation exposures in the banking book and associated
regulatory capital requirements - bank acting as originator or as
SEC3 sponsor Fixed Semi-annual
188