[Document: PI.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Documents required to be submitted for the application to issue new Tier Capital
Instruments
1. The CN-01 form should be completed, filled and signed by the bank's Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and Head
of Risk.
2. Full terms and conditions, together with the risk factors relating to the instrument.
i. Instruments of Islamic banks issued through an SPV must also provide the contract
between the bank and the SPV
3. Shareholder Approval:
i. Tier capital instruments require shareholder approval.
ii. The approval shall relate to an issuance of the specific planned Tier capital instrument
(Additional Tier 1 or subordinated Tier 2). Moreover, the approval should clearly mention
that the instrument is subordinated; coupon payments may not be paid under certain
circumstances, and contains a Point of Non-Viability (PONV) condition.
4. Legal opinion letters:
i. Legal Opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
terms and conditions are compliant with the requirements detailed in the Capital
Regulations, Standards and Guidance.
ii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
obligations contained in terms and conditions will constitute legal, valid, binding and
enforceable obligations.
iii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
Self-Assessment of the issuing bank meets the Conditions and the Capital Regulations
5. Capital planning and forecast:
The Business as Usual (BAU) case should be formulated, such as:
a) Amount of assumed issuance and the expected issuance date (e.g. Q1 2018).
b) Capital structure: % in CET1, AT1, Tier 2 and deductions (using Basel 3 capital
components)
c) Five (5) year forecast of the Balance sheet, Profit & loss P&L, Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
d) Amortization of Tier Capital Issuances: Subordinated Tier 2 in the last 5 years prior to
maturity and AT1 Instruments, if they fall under a grandfathering rule, for example, 10%
per year.
e) Key assumptions and analysis (e.g. on balance growth, asset structure, conversation
factors CCF for off balance, operational and market risk, total assets growth, of which
businesses that will be the main driver for such growth) and CRWA (i.e. on balance sheet
exposure in different industry) in numerical as well as qualitative aspect.
6. Stress Testing Scenarios:
The Stress Testing should be submitted in form of a presentation including the underlying data in
Excel sheet.
Two Scenarios should be provided as part of the presentation:
a) Top 2 customers defaulting (point in time analysis permitted: End of Year): Definition of
top 2 customers; name of top 2 customers; exposure (including on and off balance
exposures); what type of eligible collateral and value of collateral, with two sub-scenarios:
i. With average provisioning level of similar assets, and
ii. 75% provisioning level
b) Central Bank’s Macro-Economic Stress Test
 Assumptions and results of the latest Macroeconomic stress tests performed by the
Central Bank.
22

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
7. Non-Funding Notice: Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises
control or significant influence can have purchased the instrument, nor can the bank directly
or indirectly have funded the purchase of the instrument.
Private Placements
 Offer letter is required for private placements, including risk factors and the bank's financial
and risk situation.
 Market Conformity Analysis: The bank has to provide evidence on why the pricing of the
instrument conforms to the market rate.
II. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: The last bullet point mentions “Liability accounted instruments must set the
loss absorption trigger at a level of 7.625%.” Is it Central Bank decision to have this trigger
set at 7.625%? Are any triggers likely to be set for equity accounted instruments?
It is Central Bank’s decision for the trigger level. However, the trigger level derives directly from
Basel. Minimum capital requirement plus 0.625%. Note, that the consultation documents do not
consult on a trigger for equity accounted AT1. However, in particular in conjunction with the
development of a recovery/ resolution regulation, the introduction of a trigger level may also be
discussed again, as pointed out in the presentation that was circulated with the Tier capital
instrumentdocuments.
Question 2: Point of Non-Viability mentions that “A Point of Non-Viability means that the
Regulator has determined that the issuer has or will become, Non-Viable without: (a) a
Write-down; or (b) a public injection of capital (or equivalent support).”. We need
clarification as to whether the PONV will be determined by the regulator or the issuer.
Also, please advise under what circumstance will partial Write-down be permitted. The
regulator determines whether the bank is non-viable or not. Partial write-down will be permitted
only for exceptional cases. Explicit examples will not be provided to prevent any expectation.
Question 3: Appendix A: Application Process 1.4: It is mentioned that “Stress Testing with
a stress scenario of top 2 customers are defaulting”. Since many UAE banks have
concentrations in this area, what loss rate needs to be applied in this stress scenario?
Current status quo is two sub scenarios: 75% loss rate and average loss rate of the bank for such
customers.
23

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Credit Risk
I. Introduction
This section provides the guidance for the computation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets
(CRWAs) under the Standardised Approach (SA). This guidance should be read in conjunction
with the Central Bank’s Standard on Credit Risk.
A bank must apply risk weights to its on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet items using
the risk- weighted assets approach. Risk weights are based on credit ratings or fixed risk weights
and are broadly aligned with the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.
A bank may use the ratings determined by an External Credit Assessment Institution
(ECAI) for credit ratings. In general, banks should only use solicited ratings from recognised
ECAIs for the purposes of calculating capital requirement under the SA. However, in exceptional
cases, the bank may use unsolicited ratings with the Central Bank approval.
Note that all exposures subject to the SA should be risk weighted net of specific
allowances and interest in suspense. The guidance must be read in conjunction with
Securitisation, Equity Investments in Funds, Counterparty Credit Risk and Credit Valuation
Guidance.
The guidance set out in this section applies to all exposures in the banking book.
Exposures in the trading book should be captured as part of a bank’s market risk capital
calculations.
II. Clarification and Guiding Principles
A. Claims on Sovereigns
UAE Sovereigns: The UAE Sovereign asset class consists of exposures to Federal
Government and Emirates governments.
Federal Government includes all the UAE Federal entities and Central Bank of the UAE
(Central Bank). Banks have transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation for
exposures to Federal Government that receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in
AED or USD and funded in AED or USD. However, any claim on UAE Federal Government in
foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted according to the published credit risk
rating of UAE Federal Government. In the absence of solicited rating for UAE Federal
Government, unsolicited ratings are permissible for assigning risk weights for UAE Federal
Government exposures.
Emirates Governments’ exposures include exposures to the Ruler and the Crown Prince
of each emirate acting in the capacity as ruler and crown prince, as well as exposures to the
ministries, municipalities and other Emirates government departments. Banks have transition
period of 7 years from the date of implementation for exposures to Emirates Governments that
receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in AED or USD and funded in AED or USD.
Any claim on Emirates governments in a foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted
according to the rating of the Emirate Government.
GCC Sovereigns: If the regulators in GCC exercise their discretion to permit banks in
their jurisdiction to allocate a lower risk weight to claims on that jurisdiction’s sovereign,
24

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 24]
CBUAE Classification: Public
denominated in the domestic currency of that jurisdiction and funded in that currency, the same,
lower risk weight may be allocated to such claims (e.g. 0% assigned to the Government of Saudi
Arabia if the exposure is denominated and funded in SAR). This is limited only to GCC sovereign
exposures and this lower risk weight may be extended to the risk weighting of collateral and
guarantees (refer to section on credit risk mitigation).
All other exposures to sovereigns should be risk weighted according to the sovereign
rating even if the national supervisory authority adopts preferential risk weights.
B. Claims on Public Sector Entities (PSEs)
Non-Commercial PSEs
Non-Commercial PSEs include administrative bodies responsible to the UAE Federal
Government, to the Emirates Governments, or to local authorities and other non-commercial
undertakings owned by the Federal governments, Emirates Governments or local authorities.
These non-commercial PSEs do not have specific revenue- raising powers or specific institutional
arrangements the effect of which is to reduce their risks of default. The risk of non-commercial
PSE exposures is not equivalent to the risk of sovereign exposures and hence the treatment of
claims on sovereigns cannot be applied to non-commercial PSE. However, in exceptional cases,
a Non-Commercial PSE may receive the same treatment as its sovereign, if the entity has proven
formal arrangements in place to the effect that there is no distinction between the risk of the entity
and the risk of its sovereign. The Central Bank's GRE List would reflect this accordingly.
If the UAE borrower satisfies the criteria in paragraph 13, the risk weight shall be the same
as that for claims on banks. However, the preferential treatment for short-term claims on banks
may not be applied. In particular, unrated non-commercial PSE qualify for 50% risk weight. The
criteria are based on the principle that non-commercial PSEs qualify for lower risk weights
because they have significantly lower risk than a commercial company does. In addition, banks
are specifically required to ensure compliance with other aspects of the banking regulations when
lending to these entities, for example, but not limited to, the Central Bank large exposure
regulations.
The alternative criteria listed are to be applied in determining whether an entity qualifies
for treatment as a non-commercial PSE. The Central Bank provides a list (so-called GRE List) to
all the banks in the UAE which includes non-commercial PSEs.
i. Direct government (Federal or Emirate) ownership >50% directly or through a qualifying
PSE that itself is majority owned by government.
ii. An entity whose complete activities are functions of a government.
iii. Its services are of public benefit including when services are sold directly to the public
(e.g. electricity and water). The service provided should be of substantial public benefit
and the entity should have a monopolistic nature and there should be a significant
likelihood that the government would not let the entity go bankrupt.
iv. Not listed on any stock exchange.
v. Provides internal services to parent or sister companies only, and the parent company is
itself a non-commercial PSE.
vi. The function of the company is of a non-commercial nature and does not operate in a
competitive market.
25

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 25]
CBUAE Classification: Public
vii. Does not operate overseas.
In the case of a UAE sovereign guarantee given to a non-commercial PSE, with the Central
Bank approval, the guarantee may be treated as eligible credit risk mitigation (CRM) to reduce
the exposure provided the bank ensures compliance with the entire minimum regulatory
requirements and operational requirements stated in the credit risk standard.
Government Related Entities (GRE)
These are commercial undertakings that are fully owned or more than 50% in ownership
by Federal governments, or by Emirates governments. As these entities function as a corporate
in the competitive markets even though the government is the major shareholder, Central Bank
requires such exposures to be classified under GRE and get the same treatment of claims on
corporate with the appropriate risk weights based on the credit rating of the entity.
All banks must comply with the latest version of the GRE list for classification and risk
weighting of entities. Banks that have information that would lead to the addition (or removal) of
an entity to (or from) the GRE list must submit such information to the Central Bank. All banks
must comply with the GRE list unless any addition or removal of entities is reflected in the GRE
list.
Banks Internal audit/compliance department should perform regular reviews to ensure
the PSE and GRE classification complies with the Central Bank GRE list.
C. Claims on multilateral development banks (MDBs)
Exposures to MDBs shall in general be treated similar to claim on banks, but without using
the preferential treatment for short term claims. However, highly rated MDBs, which meet certain
criteria specified below, are eligible for a preferential 0% risk weight.
i. Very high quality long-term issuer ratings, i.e. a majority of an MDB's external
assessments must be AAA;
ii. Shareholder structure is comprised of a significant proportion of sovereigns with long-
term issuer credit assessments of AA- or better, or the majority of the MDB's fund-
raising is in the form of paid-in equity/capital and there is little or no leverage;
iii. Strong shareholder support demonstrated by the amount of paid-in capital contributed
by the shareholders; the amount of further capital the MDBs have the right to call, if
required, to repay their liabilities; and continued capital contributions and new pledges
from sovereign shareholders;
iv. Adequate level of capital and liquidity (a case-by-case approach is necessary in order
to assess whether each MDB's capital and liquidity are adequate), and
v. Strict statutory lending requirements and conservative financial policies, which would
include among other conditions a structured approval process, internal
creditworthiness and risk concentration limits (per country, sector, and individual
exposure and credit category), large exposures approval by the board or a committee
of the board, fixed repayment schedules, effective monitoring of use of proceeds,
status review process, and rigorous assessment of risk and provisioning to loan loss
reserve.
26

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 26]
CBUAE Classification: Public
MDBs currently eligible for 0% risk weight are the World Bank Group comprised of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation,
the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Development Association,
the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for