[Document: PI.pdf, Page 91]
CBUAE Classification: Public
transferred to other creditors until any liquidity draws are repaid in full, the liquidity facility can be
treated as a senior exposure. Otherwise, if these conditions are not satisfied, or if for other reasons
the liquidity facility constitutes a mezzanine position in economic substance rather than a senior
position in the underlying pool, the liquidity facility should be treated as a non-senior exposure.
3. Operational requirements for the recognition of risk transference
The Standards requires that banks obtain a legal opinion to confirm true sale to
demonstrate that the transferor does not maintain effective or indirect control over the transferred
exposures and that the exposures are legally isolated from the transferor in such a way (e.g.,
through the sale of assets or through sub-participation) that the exposures are put beyond the
reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or receivership. However, that legal
opinion need not be limited to legal advice from qualified external legal counsel; it may be in the
form of written advice from in-house lawyers.
For synthetic securitisations, risk transference through instruments such as credit
derivatives may be recognized only if the instruments used to transfer credit risk do not contain
terms or conditions that limit the amount of credit risk transferred. Examples of terms or conditions
that would violate this requirement include the following:
(a) Clauses that materially limit the credit protection or credit risk transference, such as an
early amortization provision in a securitisation of revolving credit facilities that effectively
subordinates the bank’s interest, significant materiality thresholds below which credit
protection is deemed not to be triggered even if a credit event occurs, or clauses that
allow for the termination of the protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the
underlying exposures.
(b) Clauses that require the originating bank to alter the underlying exposures to improve
the pool’s average credit quality.
(c) Clauses that increase the bank’s cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in
the pool’s quality.
(d) Clauses that increase the yield payable to parties other than the originating bank, such
as investors and third-party providers of credit enhancements, in response to a
deterioration in the credit quality of the reference pool.
(e) Clauses that provide for increases in a retained first-loss position or credit enhancement
provided by the originating bank after the transaction’s inception.
4. Due diligence
The Standards requires banks to have a thorough understanding of all structural features of a
securitisation transaction that would materially affect the performance of the bank’s exposures to
the transaction. Common structural features that are particularly relevant include those related to
the payment waterfall incorporated in the structure, which is the description of the order of
payment for the securitisation, under which higher-tier tranches receive principal and interest
first, before lower-tier tranches are paid. Credit enhancements and liquidity enhancements also
are important structural features; these may take the form of cash advance facilities, letters of
credit, guarantees, or credit derivatives, among others. Effective due diligence also should
consider unusual or unique aspects of a particular securitisation structure, such as the specific
nature of the conditions that would constitute default under the structure.
92

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 92]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Treatment of Securitisation exposures
1. Risk weights for off-balance-sheet exposures
The Standards requires that banks apply a 100% CCF to any securitisation-related off-
balance-sheet exposures that are not credit risk mitigants. One example of such an off-balance-
sheet exposure that may arise with securitisations is a commitment for servicer cash advances,
under which a servicer enters into a contract to advance cash to ensure an uninterrupted flow of
payments to investors. The BCBS securitisation framework provides national discretion to permit
the undrawn portion of servicer cash advances that are unconditionally cancellable without prior
notice to receive the CCF for unconditionally cancellable. The Central Bank has chosen not to
adopt this discretionary treatment, and instead requires a 100% CCF for all off-balance-sheet
exposures, including undrawn servicer cash advances.
2. Adjustment of risk-weights for overlapping exposures
Banks may adjust risk weights for overlapping exposures. An exposure A overlaps another
exposure B if in all circumstances the bank can avoid any loss on exposure B by fulfilling its
obligations with respect to exposure A. For example, if a bank holds notes as an investor but
provides full credit support to those notes, its full credit support obligation precludes any loss from
its exposure to the notes. If a bank can verify that fulfilling its obligations with respect to exposure
A will preclude a loss from its exposure to B under any circumstance, the bank does not need to
calculate risk-weighted assets for its exposure B.
To demonstrate an overlap, a bank may, for the purposes of calculating capital
requirements, split or expand its exposures. That is, splitting exposures into portions that overlap
with another exposure held by the bank and other portions that do not overlap, or expanding
exposures by assuming for capital purposes that obligations with respect to one of the overlapping
exposures are larger than those established contractually. The latter could be done, for instance,
by expanding either the assumed extent of the obligation, or the trigger events to exercise the
facility. A bank may also recognize overlap between exposures in the trading book and
securitisation exposures in the banking book, provided that the bank is able to calculate and
compare the capital charges for the relevant exposures.
3. External Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-ERBA)
To be eligible for use in the securitisation framework, the external credit assessment must
take into account and reflect the entire amount of credit risk exposure the bank has with regard
to all payments owed to it. For example, if a bank is owed both principal and interest, the
assessment must fully take into account and reflect the credit risk associated with timely
repayment of both principal and interest.
A bank is not permitted to use any external credit assessment for risk-weighting purposes
where the assessment is at least partly based on unfunded support provided by the bank itself.
For example, if a bank buys ABCP where it provides an unfunded securitisation exposure
extended to the ABCP program (e.g., liquidity facility or credit enhancement), and that exposure
plays a role in determining the credit assessment on the ABCP, the bank must treat the ABCP as
if it were not rated. The bank also must hold capital against the liquidity facility and/or credit
enhancement as a securitisation exposure.
93

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 93]
CBUAE Classification: Public
External credit assessments used for the SEC-ERBA must be from an eligible external
credit assessment institution (ECAI) as recognized by the Central Bank in accordance with the
Central Bank standards on rating agency recognition. However, the securitisation Standards
additionally requires that the credit assessment, procedures, methodologies, assumptions and
the key elements underlying the assessments must be publicly available, on a non-selective basis
and free of charge. Consequently, ratings that are made available only to the parties to a
transaction do not satisfy this requirement. Where the eligible credit assessment is not publicly
available free of charge, the ECAI should provide an adequate justification, within its own publicly
available code of conduct, in accordance with the “comply or explain” nature of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions’ Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating
Agencies.
Under the Standards, a bank may infer a rating for an unrated position from an externally
rated “reference exposure” for purposes of the SEC-ERBA provided that the reference
securitisation exposure ranks pari passu or is subordinate in all respects to the unrated
securitisation exposure. Credit enhancements, if any, must be taken into account when assessing
the relative subordination of the unrated exposure and the reference securitisation exposure. For
example, if the reference securitisationexposure benefits from any third-party guarantees or other
credit enhancements that are not available to the unrated exposure, then the latter may not be
assigned an inferred rating based on the reference securitisation exposure.
4. Standardised Approach (SEC-SA)
The supervisory formula used for the calculations within the SEC-SA has been calibrated
by the BCBS to generate required capital under an assumed minimum 8% risk-based capital ratio.
As a result, the appropriate conversion to risk-weighted assets for the SEC-SA generally requires
multiplication of the computed capital ratio by a factor of 12.5 (the reciprocal of 8%) to produce
the risk weight used within broader calculations of risk-based capital adequacy. This multiplication
by 12.5 is reflected in the requirements as articulated in the Central Bank’s Securitisation
Standards.
If the underlying pool of exposures receives a risk weight of 1250%, then paragraph 5 of
the Introduction of the Standards for Capital Adequacy of banks in the UAE is applicable.
When applying the supervisory formula for the SEC-SA to structures involving an SPE, all
of the SPE’s exposures related to the securitisation are to be treated as exposures in the pool. In
particular, in the case of swaps other than credit derivatives, the exposure should include the
positive current market value times the risk weight of the swap provider. However, under the
Standards, a bank can exclude the exposures of the SPE from the pool for capital calculation
purposes if the bank can demonstrate that the risk does not affect its particular securitisation
exposure or that the risk is immaterial, for example because it has been mitigated. Certain market
practices may eliminate or at least significantly reduce the potential risk from a default of a swap
provider. Examples of such features could be:
 cash collateralization of the market value in combination with an agreement of prompt
additional payments in case of an increase of the market value of the swap; or
 minimum credit quality of the swap provider with the obligation to post collateral or present
an alternative swap provider without any costs for the SPE in the event of a credit
deterioration on the part of the original swap provider.
94

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 94]
CBUAE Classification: Public
If the bank is able to demonstrate that the risk is mitigated in this way, and that the exposures do
not contribute materially to the risks faced by the bank as a holder of the securitisation exposure,
the bank may exclude these exposures from the K
SA
calculation.
6. Treatment of credit risk mitigation for securitisation exposures
1. Tranched protection
In the case of tranched credit protection, the original securitisation tranche should be
decomposed into protected and unprotected sub-tranches. However, this decomposition is a
theoretical construction, and should not be viewed as creating a new securitisation transaction.
Similarly, the resulting sub- tranches should not be considered resecuritisations solely due to the
presence of the creditprotection.
For a bank using the SEC-ERBA for the original securitisation exposure, the bank should
use the risk weight of the original securitisation for the sub-tranche of highest priority. Note that
the term “sub-tranche of highest priority” only describes the relative priority of the decomposed
tranche. The calculation of the risk weight of each sub-tranche is independent from the question
of whether the sub-tranche is protected (i.e., risk is taken by the protection provider) or is
unprotected (i.e., risk is taken by the protection buyer).
2. Maturity mismatches
For synthetic securitisations, maturity mismatches may arise when protection is bought on
securitised assets (when, for example, a bank uses credit derivatives to transfer part or all of the
credit risk of a specific pool of assets to third parties). When the credit derivatives unwind, the
transaction will terminate. This implies that the effective maturity of all the tranches of the synthetic
securitisation may differ from that of the underlying exposures.
7. Simple, Transparent, and Comparable Criteria
In general, to qualify for treatment as simple, transparent, and comparable (STC), a
securitisation must meet all of the criteria specified in the Standards, including the Appendix to
the Standards. The criteria include a requirement that the aggregated value of all exposures to a
single obligor as of the acquisition date not exceed 2% of the aggregated outstanding exposure