
re Capital Adequacy.
2. Beta
Beta serves as a proxy for the industry-wide relationship between the operational risk loss
experience and the level of operational risk exposure as reflected in the gross income for a
business line. It is representative of the amount of loss that can be incurred by a bank given that
level of exposure (represented by gross income) in a business line.
The beta factors for the eight business lines as set by the Basel Committee are as follows:
Beta Business line Beta factor
β 1 Corporate finance 18%
β 2 Trading and sales 18%
β 3 Retail banking 12%
β 4 Commercial banking 15%
β 5 Payment and settlement 18%
β 6 Agency services 15%
β 7 Asset management 12%
β 8 Retail brokerage 12%
The beta factors have been set within a range of 12-18% depending upon the degree of
operational risk perceived in a business line. Thus, a 12% beta factor for retail banking indicates
that, in general, the operational risk in retail banking is lower than the operational risk in
commercial banking. The latter, which has a beta of 15%, carries a lower operational risk than,
for example, payment and settlement, which carries a beta factor of 18%.
Treatment of Negative Gross Income from Business lines
Some banks may have negative gross income for some years in some business lines.
This will result in a negative capital charge for the business line for that year. If the gross income
and the resulting capital charge of a specific business line is negative, the aggregate of the capital
charges across business lines for that year could still be positive, so long as the gross income
from other business lines is positive.
The following guidance applies for treatment of negative capital charges under the
Standardised Approach:
- In any given year, negative charges in business lines may offset positive capital charges
in other business lines without any limit.
- If the total capital charge, after offsetting negative and positive capital charges of business
lines, is negative for a given year, then the numerator for that year will be set to zero.
- If negative gross income distorts the operational risk capital charge calculated under the
SA, the Central Bank will consider appropriate supervisory action under Pillar 2.
Calculating the Operational risk capital charge under the Standardised Approach (SA)
The calculation of the capital charge for operational risk under the SA follows the following steps:
127

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 127]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Step 1: Calculate the capital charge for each business line using its gross income and applicable
beta factor in year 1.
If the gross income from a business line is negative, the capital charge for that business line in
year 1 willbenegative.
Step 2: Sum the eight capital charges of business lines for Year 1.
In a year, negative capital charges in some business lines may offset positive capital charges for
other business lines without any limit.
Steps 3 and 4: Follow steps 1 and 2 for the other two years.
Step 5: Calculate the 3-year average of the aggregated capital charges. Where the aggregate
capital charge across all business lines in a given year is negative, then the input to the numerator
for that year will be zero. The denominator will remain 3, representing the three years included in
the calculation.
Central Bank supports the use of the Beta given in the Standards re Capital Adequacy as well as
here in this guidance above as the basis for the capital calculations under SA.
c. Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA) Capital Charge
The Alternative Standardised Approach provides a different exposure indicator for two
of the eight business lines, retail banking and commercial banking. These activities essentially
comprise traditional banking business and still represent the main business of banks in several
jurisdictions.
Calculation of Operational Risk Capital Charge under Alternative Standardised
Approach (ASA)
Using the ASA, the operational risk capital charge for retail banking and commercial
banking will be based on the following formulas:
K = β x m x LA
RB RB RB
Where:
K = is the capital charge for retail banking
rb
m = 0.035
β
rb
= is the beta factor for retail banking (12%)
LA = is the total outstanding retail loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of
rb
provisions), averaged over the past three years
K = β x m x LA
CB CB CB
Where:
K = is the capital charge for commercial banking
CB
m = 0.035
β CB= is the beta factor for commercial banking (15%)
LA = is the total outstanding commercial loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of
CB
provisions), averaged over the past three years
128

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 128]
CBUAE Classification: Public
For the other six business lines, the calculation of the operational risk capital charge will be based
on the gross income and beta factor of that business line, as prescribed under the SA.
Further Options under the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)
Further options are available at under the ASA for calculating the operational risk capital
charge to address problems in disaggregation of the exposure indicator among business lines by
banks. However, the greater the disaggregation, the better will be the alignment of the capital
charge with a bank's operational risk profile.
Available options relate to using loans and advances in commercial and retail banking
business lines and gross income in the other six business lines as the exposure indicators with
different beta factor combinations:
- Option 1 – using a common beta factor of 15% for commercial loans and retail loans, and
the SA beta factors for the other six business lines
- Option 2 – using the SA beta factors of 15% and 12%, respectively, for commercial loans
and retail loans and a common beta factor of 18% for the other six business lines
- Option 3 – using a common beta of 15% for commercial loans and retail loans and a
common beta factor of 18% for the other six business lines
For further details, kindly refer to the Appendix below.
IV. Shari’ah Implementation
Banks that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of
Shari’ah law and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Operational Risk
Standard, shall, for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the
relevant risk weighted asset in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner
compliant to the Shari’ah law.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
V. Frequently Asked Questions
A. Basic Indicator Approach
Question 1: If a bank incurs a negative gross income in any of the previous three years,
will it be taken into account under the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA)?
The basis for working out the capital charge for operational risk under the BIA is three-year
average of positive gross income. If the gross income for any of the previous three years is
negative or zero, the figures for that year will be excluded from both the numerator and the
denominator when calculating the capital charge. The negative gross income will not be added to
the numerator and the denominator will exclude the year in which the income is negative.
As mentioned under the Basic Indicator Approach, if negative gross income distorts a bank’s Pillar
1 capital charge under the Standardised Approach, supervisors will consider appropriate
supervisory action under Pillar 2.
129

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 129]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 2: Can the Central Bank detail or provide examples of the extraordinary or
irregular items under the definition of Gross income. Does this cover the bank selling off
certain part of its business?
An extraordinary or irregular item consists of gains or losses included on a bank's P&L statement
(usually reported separately as these items are not predictors of future performance) from events
that are unusual and infrequent in nature. Such items are the result of unforeseen and atypical
events that are outside the normal course of the core banking business (i.e. outside the types of
income described in paragraph 13 of the Operational Risk section of Standards re Capital
Adequacy in the UAE). For example, income derived from non-core banking business; income
from discontinued operations; extraordinary income (e.g. from the sale of certain part a banking
business).
B. Standardised Approach
Question 3: Define business Segments under 'Retail Brokerage' and 'Asset Management'?
• Retail Brokerage - Examples of activities:
Execution and full service, such as:
i. Reception and transmission of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments
ii. Execution of orders on behalf of clients
• Asset Management- Examples of activities:
i. Portfolio management
ii. Managing of Investments funds, including: pooled funds, segregated funds, retail
funds, institutional funds, closed funds, open funds, private equity funds
Question 4: What is the objective mapping criteria for mapping ancillary business function
that supports more than one business line?
Such objective mapping criteria depends on the business and ancillary business mix of a bank.
These criteria are not preset by the Central Bank. A bank should establish internally such criteria,
reflecting its internal organisation, and these should be subject to independent review as per point
(ix) of paragraph 12 of the Operational Risk section of Standards re Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
The allocation can be done pro-rata based on the chosen criteria.
Examples of objective criteria include:
1. number of full-time equivalent members of staff,
2. time sheet man-hours,
3. number of clients or transactions originated from each business line,
4. volume of business originated from each business line.
Question 5: Business Segments/ functions that are to be mapped to 'Payment and
Settlement' can be clearly articulated, as currently Level 2 defines the business segment
as 'External Clients'
There is no fixed definition of external clients but all clients that the bank deals with externally with
regards to Payment and Settlements need to be incorporated in this business line.
130

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 130]
CBUAE Classification: Public
C. Alternative Standardised Approach
Question 6: What exposure indicator is used in the ASA approach?
In the ASA, gross income is replaced by the credit volume in terms of outstanding loans and
advances (L&A) multiplied by a factor m (fixed at 0.035), as the exposure indicator for retail and
commercial banking business lines. The loans and advances are non-risk weighted and gross of
provisions.
Question 7: Why is the volume-based indicator alternative provided?
This volume-based indicator is provided to avoid large differences in the operational risk
requirement caused by differences in income margins across banks and jurisdictions in these
business lines. Gross income is not anappropriate exposure indicator of the extent of operational
risk in retail and commercial lending.
Question 8: Can a bank choose to adopt ASA on its own?
No, the Central Bank must be satisfied that the alternative approach provides an improved basis
for calculating the capital charge for operational risk in the bank. Reverting to the SA after adopting
ASA is only possible with the approval of the Central Bank.
Question 9: What comprises Commercial Loans and Advances?
Under the ASA, commercial loans and advances will include outstanding amounts (non-risk
weighted and gross of provisions) averaged over the past three years, from the following credit
portfolios:
Commercial loans included for ASA Definitions
Corporates Loans to a corporation, partnership or
proprietorship firm
Sovereigns Loans to sovereigns and their central banks,
certain public sector enterprises and
multilateral development banks
Banks Loans to other banks and regulated
securities firms
Specialised lending Loans for project finance, object finance,
commodities finance, income producing real
estate and commercial real estate
Small and medium enterprises treated as Loans to small and medium enterprises
corporates belonging to a group with annual gross
turnover that exceeds AED 250 million
Purchased corporate receivables Bank finance against amounts due to
corporates from third parties for goods
and/or services provided by them.
Book value of securities held in the banking The value at which securities have been
book purchased rather than their market value.
Securities that are held in the banking book
are intended to be held until maturity. There
is no intent of trading in these securities.
Question 10: What comprises Retail Loans?
For the purpose of the ASA, retail loans will include total outstanding amounts (non-risk weighted
131