
UAE Sovereigns: The UAE Sovereign asset class consists of exposures to Federal
Government and Emirates governments.
Federal Government includes all the UAE Federal entities and Central Bank of the UAE
(Central Bank). Banks have transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation for
exposures to Federal Government that receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in
AED or USD and funded in AED or USD. However, any claim on UAE Federal Government in
foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted according to the published credit risk
rating of UAE Federal Government. In the absence of solicited rating for UAE Federal
Government, unsolicited ratings are permissible for assigning risk weights for UAE Federal
Government exposures.
Emirates Governments’ exposures include exposures to the Ruler and the Crown Prince
of each emirate acting in the capacity as ruler and crown prince, as well as exposures to the
ministries, municipalities and other Emirates government departments. Banks have transition
period of 7 years from the date of implementation for exposures to Emirates Governments that
receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in AED or USD and funded in AED or USD.
Any claim on Emirates governments in a foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted
according to the rating of the Emirate Government.
GCC Sovereigns: If the regulators in GCC exercise their discretion to permit banks in
their jurisdiction to allocate a lower risk weight to claims on that jurisdiction’s sovereign,
24

[Document: document.pdf, Page 27]
CBUAE Classification: Public
denominated in the domestic currency of that jurisdiction and funded in that currency, the same,
lower risk weight may be allocated to such claims (e.g. 0% assigned to the Government of Saudi
Arabia if the exposure is denominated and funded in SAR). This is limited only to GCC sovereign
exposures and this lower risk weight may be extended to the risk weighting of collateral and
guarantees (refer to section on credit risk mitigation).
All other exposures to sovereigns should be risk weighted according to the sovereign
rating even if the national supervisory authority adopts preferential risk weights.
B. Claims on Public Sector Entities (PSEs)
Non-Commercial PSEs
Non-Commercial PSEs include administrative bodies responsible to the UAE Federal
Government, to the Emirates Governments, or to local authorities and other non-commercial
undertakings owned by the Federal governments, Emirates Governments or local authorities.
These non-commercial PSEs do not have specific revenue- raising powers or specific institutional
arrangements the effect of which is to reduce their risks of default. The risk of non-commercial
PSE exposures is not equivalent to the risk of sovereign exposures and hence the treatment of
claims on sovereigns cannot be applied to non-commercial PSE. However, in exceptional cases,
a Non-Commercial PSE may receive the same treatment as its sovereign, if the entity has proven
formal arrangements in place to the effect that there is no distinction between the risk of the entity
and the risk of its sovereign. The Central Bank's GRE List would reflect this accordingly.
If the UAE borrower satisfies the criteria in paragraph 13, the risk weight shall be the same
as that for claims on banks. However, the preferential treatment for short-term claims on banks
may not be applied. In particular, unrated non-commercial PSE qualify for 50% risk weight. The
criteria are based on the principle that non-commercial PSEs qualify for lower risk weights
because they have significantly lower risk than a commercial company does. In addition, banks
are specifically required to ensure compliance with other aspects of the banking regulations when
lending to these entities, for example, but not limited to, the Central Bank large exposure
regulations.
The alternative criteria listed are to be applied in determining whether an entity qualifies
for treatment as a non-commercial PSE. The Central Bank provides a list (so-called GRE List) to
all the banks in the UAE which includes non-commercial PSEs.
i. Direct government (Federal or Emirate) ownership >50% directly or through a qualifying
PSE that itself is majority owned by government.
ii. An entity whose complete activities are functions of a government.
iii. Its services are of public benefit including when services are sold directly to the public
(e.g. electricity and water). The service provided should be of substantial public benefit
and the entity should have a monopolistic nature and there should be a significant
likelihood that the government would not let the entity go bankrupt.
iv. Not listed on any stock exchange.
v. Provides internal services to parent or sister companies only, and the parent company is
itself a non-commercial PSE.
vi. The function of the company is of a non-commercial nature and does not operate in a
competitive market.
25

[Document: document.pdf, Page 28]
CBUAE Classification: Public
vii. Does not operate overseas.
In the case of a UAE sovereign guarantee given to a non-commercial PSE, with the Central
Bank approval, the guarantee may be treated as eligible credit risk mitigation (CRM) to reduce
the exposure provided the bank ensures compliance with the entire minimum regulatory
requirements and operational requirements stated in the credit risk standard.
Government Related Entities (GRE)
These are commercial undertakings that are fully owned or more than 50% in ownership
by Federal governments, or by Emirates governments. As these entities function as a corporate
in the competitive markets even though the government is the major shareholder, Central Bank
requires such exposures to be classified under GRE and get the same treatment of claims on
corporate with the appropriate risk weights based on the credit rating of the entity.
All banks must comply with the latest version of the GRE list for classification and risk
weighting of entities. Banks that have information that would lead to the addition (or removal) of
an entity to (or from) the GRE list must submit such information to the Central Bank. All banks
must comply with the GRE list unless any addition or removal of entities is reflected in the GRE
list.
Banks Internal audit/compliance department should perform regular reviews to ensure
the PSE and GRE classification complies with the Central Bank GRE list.
C. Claims on multilateral development banks (MDBs)
Exposures to MDBs shall in general be treated similar to claim on banks, but without using
the preferential treatment for short term claims. However, highly rated MDBs, which meet certain
criteria specified below, are eligible for a preferential 0% risk weight.
i. Very high quality long-term issuer ratings, i.e. a majority of an MDB's external
assessments must be AAA;
ii. Shareholder structure is comprised of a significant proportion of sovereigns with long-
term issuer credit assessments of AA- or better, or the majority of the MDB's fund-
raising is in the form of paid-in equity/capital and there is little or no leverage;
iii. Strong shareholder support demonstrated by the amount of paid-in capital contributed
by the shareholders; the amount of further capital the MDBs have the right to call, if
required, to repay their liabilities; and continued capital contributions and new pledges
from sovereign shareholders;
iv. Adequate level of capital and liquidity (a case-by-case approach is necessary in order
to assess whether each MDB's capital and liquidity are adequate), and
v. Strict statutory lending requirements and conservative financial policies, which would
include among other conditions a structured approval process, internal
creditworthiness and risk concentration limits (per country, sector, and individual
exposure and credit category), large exposures approval by the board or a committee
of the board, fixed repayment schedules, effective monitoring of use of proceeds,
status review process, and rigorous assessment of risk and provisioning to loan loss
reserve.
26

[Document: document.pdf, Page 29]
CBUAE Classification: Public
MDBs currently eligible for 0% risk weight are the World Bank Group comprised of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation,
the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Development Association,
the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European
Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank,
the International Finance Facility for Immunisation and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
The list of MDBs is by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and can be found
on the website www.bis.org. All banks are required to refer to and comply with the BCBS list.
Whilst the BCBS evaluates the eligibility of the entities on a case-by-case basis, the Central Bank
has no role in the assessment and decision of entities being eligible for 0% risk weight.
D. Claims on Banks
The types of claims that fall under this asset class are claims not limited to those due from
banks, nostro accounts, certificates of deposit (CD) issued by banks, and repurchase agreements
(repos). A risk weight of 50% (long term) and 20% (short term) is applied to claims on unrated
banks. However, this treatment is subject to the provision that no claim on an unrated bank may
receive a risk weight lower than that applied to claims on its sovereign of incorporation.
Exposure to intra-group of the bank have to be risk weighted according to the external
rating of the counterparty entity (e.g. exposures to the head office shall receive the risk weight
according to the rating of the head office).
E. Claims on Securities Firms
In addition to providing loans to other banks in the interbank market, banks provide loans to
securities firms. The securities firms use these loans to fund the purchase of securities. Exposures
to these securities firms shall be treated as claims on banks if these firms are subject to prudential
standards and a level of supervision that is equivalent to those applicable to banks. Such
supervision must include at least both capital and liquidity requirements. Exposures to all other
securities firms that are not treated as claims on banks will be treated as exposures to corporates.
F. Claims on Corporates
For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, exposures to corporates include, but
are not limited to, exposures (loans, bonds, receivables, etc.) to incorporated entities,
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, trusts, funds and other entities with similar
characteristics, except those which qualify for one of the other exposure classes. The corporate
exposure class does not include exposures to individuals.
Claims on corporates may be risk- weighted based on the entity’s external credit rating
assessment. The Central Bank may increase the standard risk weight for unrated claims where it
judges that a higher risk weight is warranted by the overall default experience. As part of the
supervisory review process, the Central Bank may also consider whether the credit quality of
corporate claims held by banks warrants a risk weight higher than 100%.
G. Claims included in the Regulatory Retail Portfolios
To qualify for a 75% risk weight in the regulatory retail portfolio, claims must meet the four
27

[Document: document.pdf, Page 30]
CBUAE Classification: Public
criteria stated in the Credit Risk Standard (orientation criterion, product criterion, granularity
criterion and value criterion). All other retail claims should be risk weighted at 100%. For
granularity criterion and value criterion, the aggregated exposure means gross amount (i.e. not
taking any credit risk mitigation into account) of all forms of retail exposures, excluding residential
real estate exposures. In case of off-balance sheet items, the gross amount will be calculated
after applying credit conversion factors. In addition, “to one counterparty” means one or several
entities that may be considered as a single beneficiary (e.g. in the case of a small business that
is affiliated to another small business, the limit would apply to the bank’s aggregated exposure on
both businesses).
Claims secured by residential property and past due retail loans are to be excluded from
the overall regulatory retail portfolio for risk weighting purposes. These are addressed separately
in the asset classes for residential property or commercial real estate.
H. Claims Secured by Residential Property
Claims secured by residential property are defined as loans secured by residential
property that is either self-occupied or rented out. The property must be fully mortgaged in favor
of the bank.
The Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is the outstanding loan exposure divided by the value of the
property. The value of the property will be maintained at the value at origination unless the Central
Bank requires banks to revise the property value downward. The value must be adjusted if an
extraordinary, idiosyncratic event occurs resulting in a permanent reduction of the property value.
Such adjustment must be notified to the Central Bank. If the value has been adjusted downwards,
a subsequent upwards adjustment can be made but not to a higher value than the value at
origination.
A 35% risk weighting shall apply to eligible residential claims if the LTV ratio is less than
85% and the exposure is less than AED 10 million. When the loan amount exceeds AED 10 million
and the LTV is below 85%, the loan amount up to AED 10 million will receive 35% risk weight and
the remaining amount above AED 10 million receives 100% risk weight.
A risk weight of 75% may be applied by banks that do not hold information regarding
LTVs for individual exposures
For residential exposures that meet the criteria for regulatory retail claims and have an
LTV greater than 85%, the 75% risk weight must be applied to the whole loan, i.e. the loan should
not be split.
The risk-weights in this asset class may be applied to a limit of four individual properties
made to a single individual customer that are owner- occupied or rented out by a retail borrower.
Any additional exposure to a customer with loans for four individual properties shall be classified
as a claim on a commercial property and risk weighted with 100%.
I. Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate is defined as a loan granted by a bank to a customer specifically
for the purpose of buying or constructing commercial property including residential towers and
mixed use towers.
J. Past Due Loans
Risk weights of past due loans depend on the degree of provision coverage on the claim.
For any past due loan, 100% Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) should be applied for the off-
28