[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 31]
CBUAE Classification: Public
has taken place. If yes, appropriate risk-based Enhanced Due Diligence (“EDD”) and ongoing
monitoring procedures should be implemented.
 The customer or business relationship, including the related/associated accounts and relationship
to the STR or SAR customers, should immediately be classified as a high-risk customer and
appropriate risk-based EDD and ongoing monitoring procedures should be implemented in order
to mitigate the associated money laundering and the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations
risks.
Unless specifically instructed by the FIU to do so, LFIs are under no obligation to carry out transactions
they suspect, or have reasonable grounds to suspect, of being related to a crime. Furthermore, unless
specifically instructed by the FIU to maintain the business relationship (for example, so that the competent
authorities may monitor the customer’s activity), it should be the LFI’s responsibility to take appropriate
steps in order to decide whether or not to maintain the business relationship based on their risk appetite.
However, LFIs should consider the risk of tipping off a customer when taking these restrictive measures on
the account. These steps may include, but are not limited to:
 Reassessing the business relationship risk and re-evaluating the customer’s risk profile, where
necessary.
 Initiating an enhanced customer due diligence review.
 Considering the performance of an enhanced background investigation (including, if appropriate,
the use of a third-party investigation service).
 Any other reasonable steps, commensurate with the nature and size of their businesses, and
bearing in mind the obligation to avoid “tipping off” the customer.
LFIs that determine to maintain the business relationship should, commensurate with the nature and size
of their businesses:
 Document the process by which the decision was made to maintain the business relationship, along
with the rationale for, and any conditions related to, the decision; and
 Implement adequate EDD measures to manage and mitigate the money laundering/the financing
of terrorism and illegal organisations risks associated with the business relationship.
In such cases, beyond EDD measures, LFIs should also implement additional control measures such as,
but not limited to:
 Requiring additional data, information or documents from the customer in order to carry out
transactions (for example, evidence of relevant licenses or authorizations, customs documents,
additional identification documents, bank or other references).
 Restricting the customer’s use of certain products or services.
Placing restrictions and/or additional approval requirements on the processing of the customer’s
transactions (for example, transaction size and/or volume limits, or limits to the number of
transactions of certain types that can be executed during a given time period).
LFIs should also document the specific EDD, ongoing monitoring, and additional control measures to be
taken. In this regard, LFIs should obtain senior management approval for the plan, including its specific
conditions, duration and any requirements for its removal, as well as the roles and responsibilities for its
implementation, monitoring and reporting, commensurate with the nature and degree of the money
Page 31 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 32]
CBUAE Classification: Public
laundering and the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations risks associated with the business
relationship.
Thus, retaining a customer relationship, exiting the relationship, restricting an account, or any other
actions taken by an LFI following the filing of an STR, SAR, or other report is a decision based on
the LFI’s internal policies and procedures, including its risk appetite, to safeguard the LFI from
relevant risks. This is unless the entity receives instructions from the FIU or any other competent authority
that should be immediately implemented without delay. In cases where the LFI decides to reject a new
customer or to exit an existing relationship due to an STR or SAR filing (or other report), the LFI should
ensure that the subject of the filing is added to internal watch lists, (e.g., a list of individuals and entities that
have been exited for financial crime-related reasons and that should be screened by the LFI to avoid future
on-boarding).
While individual STRs, SARs, or other reports that pose particular risk may require escalation and review
for potential exit, repeated filings on a single account or group of related accounts should trigger
consideration of customer exit. Repeat filings should also prompt a review of risks associated with accounts
of a similar type and of whether internal controls are effectively mitigating risk. An LFI should determine a
threshold for which an account that has been subject to a certain amount of STR or SAR filings (or other
report) will be escalated to senior management for consideration of account closure, possible restrictions
on the account, and/or enhanced monitoring.
LFIs should also maintain a customer exit policy that outlines the process for reviewing the overall customer
relationship and deciding on next steps, including ending the relationship and notifying law enforcement
and/or other group affiliates, as appropriate. Customer exit policies should include criteria for when these
actions are appropriate and outline how the LFI should monitor the activity of a customer it decides to retain.
The LFI should contact law enforcement before closing an account if the entity has knowledge of an ongoing
law enforcement investigation involving that account or customer, or the LFI has filed an STR(s), SAR(s),
or other report types on the customer or account due to continuing suspicious activity. LFIs should be aware
that law enforcement may have an interest in ensuring that certain accounts remain open notwithstanding
suspicious or potential criminal activity in connection with those accounts. If a law enforcement agency
requests that an LFI keep a particular account open, the LFI should ask for a written request. The written
request should indicate that the agency has requested that the LFI maintain the account along with the
purpose and duration of the request. Ultimately, the decision to maintain or close an account should be
made by an LFI in accordance with its own standards and guidelines.
6.3. Governance and Reporting to Senior Management
LFIs should have mechanisms to inform the Board of Directors (or a committee of the Board) and senior
management of compliance initiatives, compliance deficiencies, STRs, SARs, or other regulatory reports
filed, and corrective actions taken. LFIs should also develop and maintain a system of reporting that
provides accurate and timely information on the status of the AML/CFT program, including statistics on key
elements of the program, such as the number of transactions monitored, alerts generated, cases created,
and STRs, SARs, or other report types filed.
Employees should report the number and types of STRs, SARs, or other regulatory reports filed to the
Board of Directors or a Board-designated committee. While employees are not required to provide actual
Page 32 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 33]
CBUAE Classification: Public
copies of STRs, SARs, or other regulatory reports to the Board (or a committee of the Board), such
notifications should contain sufficient information to enable the Board or its committee to provide
appropriate oversight over the LFI’s AML/CFT program. Where an individual filing documents activity that
poses a particular risk, management may provide a copy of the report to the Board or Board-designated
committee. Where appropriate, the suspicious activity or transaction underlying the filing of an STR, SAR,
or other regulatory reports should be communicated to those individuals responsible for managing the risk
associated with the customer and/or activity that is the subject of the STR, SAR, or other regulatory reports
in order to permit such employees to respond appropriately to the AML/CFT risks identified. Although all
such communications are subject to the confidentiality restrictions, it should be noted that the confidentiality
requirement does not pertain to communication within the LFIs or its affiliated group members (foreign
branches, subsidiaries, or parent company) for the purpose of sharing information relevant to the
identification, prevention, or reporting of suspicious transactions and/or crimes related to money laundering
and the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations, according to Article 39.1 of the AML-CFT Decision
(also referenced in Section 5. Confidentiality and Prohibition against “Tipping Off”).
6.4. Record Retention
According to Article 24 of the AML-CFT Decision, LFIs are required to retain all records and documents
pertaining to STRs and the results of all analysis or investigations performed for at least five (5) years from
the date of completion of the transaction or termination of the business relationship. Such records relate to
both internal STRs and those filed with the FIU, and should include but are not limited to:
 Suspicious transaction indicator alert records, logs, investigations, recommendations and decision
records, and all related correspondence;
 Competent authority request for information, correspondent bank requests for assistance, and their
related investigation files and correspondence;
 CDD and Business Relationship monitoring records, documents, and information obtained in the
course of analyzing or investigating potentially suspicious transactions, requests for assistance by
LFIs, and all internal or external correspondence or communication records associated with them;
 STRs, SARs, and other report types (internal and external), logs, and statistics, together with their
related analysis, recommendations and decision records, and all related correspondence; and
 Notes concerning feedback provided by the FIU with respect to reported STRs, SARs, and other
report types, as well as notes or records pertaining to any other actions taken by, or requested by,
the FIU.
Page 33 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 34]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Annex 1. Indicative Examples of Insufficient STR and SAR
Narratives
Example 1:
 Reason for reporting: Statements show large payments to luxury car companies. High amounts of
funds transfers continue over several months.
Comments: The narrative lacks identifying information on the STR subject (name, occupation, address,
account number, etc.), and no explanation is given as to why the LFI considers this activity suspicious. The
narrative lacks specific transaction data that identifies the dates and amounts of the large payments and
specific details on the destination of the funds (the name, location, bank, and account number of the
beneficiary car companies, if identifiable).
Example 2:
 Money orders were purchased on 03-28-21 to ABC Corporation in the amount of AED30,000.
Comments: No explanation is given as to why the MVTS considers this activity suspicious. The LFI does
not indicate if money orders were purchased with cash. The LFI does not provide any information about the
purchaser or nature of the business (ABC Corporation) and if this activity was normal or unusual for the
purchaser or the business.
Example 3:
 Mr. X was the originator of 12 wires totaling AED400,000. All of the wires were remitted to a Hong
Kong based company. During the same period of time, Mr. X deposited cash into his account.
Comments: The narrative lacks specific details on the destination of the funds (the name of the Hong Kong
based company, bank, and account number of the beneficiary, if identifiable). The depository LFI fails to
include any information concerning the relationship, if any, between the LFI and the customer. Also, no
specific transaction data is provided that identifies the dates and amounts of each wire transfer and the
cash deposit.
Example 4:
 The reason for the suspicion is due to multiple third-party transfers being paid into Mr. Y account
that were soon followed by multiple cash withdrawals. Funds sent from the account to multiple third
parties.
Comments: The narrative lacks specific details on the source of the funds (the individual/entity sending
the multiple third-party transfers). The STR does not provide a timeframe of when the transfers were made,
the number and value of the third-party transfers, the number and value of the cash withdrawals, and the
timeframe (how soon) the cash withdrawals were made following the third-party transfers. The depository
LFI fails to include any information concerning the relationship, if any, between the individual/entity sending
the multiple third-party transfers and the customer.
Example 5:
 Information has come to our attention that the Mrs. Y has been convicted of a drug trafficking
offense.
Page 34 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 35]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Comments: The narrative fails to describe the depository LFI’s relationship with the subject and include
additional identifying details about the subject (name, occupation, address, account number, etc.). The
narrative does not describe any suspicious activity aside from the conviction and fails to state if the
suspicion is related to money laundering or if there are possible links to the financing of terrorism and illegal
organisations.
Example 6:
 Mrs. Y came into the bank and asked questions during the account opening process that were
suspicious.
Comments: The narrative does not describe the suspicious activity in detail as a basis for filing the SAR
(e.g., the customer refusing to answer account opening questions; providing falsified or counterfeit
documentation; exhibiting reluctance to provide detailed information about the customer’s business). The
narrative template also fails to describe information that the LFI was able to gather on the prospective
customer during account opening (occupation, address, etc.).
Example 7:
 Mr. LMN was the subject of adverse media involving his association with a terrorist group.