
cancel distributions/payments on the instrument, nor must they act in a way that could hinder the
recapitalization of the bank. For example, it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional
Tier 1 instrument to:
i. attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments on this other
instrument were not also fully discretionary;
ii. prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond the point in time
that dividends/coupons on the instrument are resumed;
iii. impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity (including
acquisitions/disposals).
8. A dividend stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the payment of
19

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary share buybacks. The dividend stopper will
remain until one coupon following the dividend stopper date has been made in full or an amount
equal to the same has been duly set aside or provided for in full for the benefit of the holders of
the instrument.
Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA):
To further clarify the MDA’s calculation, below is an example of the calculation:
Bank Capital Holdings 14.0%
Bank Capital Requirements %
CET1 7.0%
AT1 1.5%
Tier 2 2.0%
Pillar 2 0.0%
Capital Conservation Buffer 2.5%
Countercyclical Buffer 0.000%
D-SIB Buffer 1.5%
Total 14.5%
Combined Buffer 4.0%
Quartile of Buffer 1.0%
Bank Capital Gap 0.5%
Quartile 1 Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Quartile 4
0.0 1.0% 1.0% 2.0% 2.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0%
The bank first will need to fulfill all minimum requirements. As the bank only has CET1 capital
available, it needs to use CET1 capital to fulfill all minimum capital requirements
(10.5%=7%+1.5%+2%). After fulfilling the minimum capital requirements, the bank has still 3.5%
(=14.0%-10.5%) CET1 capital available to fulfill the combined buffer requirements of 4%. Hence,
the Bank’s capital gap is 0.5%.
From the table above 3.5% means that the bank is in the fourth of the buffer requirements.
Therefore, the MDA is restricted to 60% of the bank’s earnings, which means the bank may
distribute no other restrictions and limitations considered, up to 60% of the earnings in the form
of dividend, Additional Tier 1 payments, and variable remuneration.
Note that items considered to be distributions include dividends and share buybacks,
discretionary payments on other Tier 1 capital instruments and discretionary bonus payments to
staff. Payments that do not result in a depletion of CET1, which may for example include certain
scrip dividends, are not considered distributions.
20

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Note also that earnings are defined as distributable profits calculated prior to the deduction of
elements subject to the restriction on distributions. Earnings are calculated after the tax, which
would have been reported had none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact
of making, such distributions are reversed out. Where a bank does not have positive earnings
and has a CET1 ratio less than 9.5%, it would be restricted from making positive net distributions.
Gross-up Clauses:
Gross-up clauses for Additional Tier 1:
9. Gross up clauses are acceptable only if:
i. It is activated by decision of the local tax authority of the issuer and not the investor,
ii. The increased payments do not exceed distributable items,
iii. The gross-up is in relation to the dividend and not the principal.
Gross up Clauses for Tier 2:
10. The second condition related to distributable items is not relevant for Tier 2 instruments,
as Tier 2 coupons are not restricted by the amount of available distributable items. Therefore, Tier
2 gross-up clauses can be considered as acceptable if they are activated by a decision of the
local tax authority of the issuer, and if they relate to dividend and not on principal. The other two
conditions on gross-up clauses are, however, activation is still required by a local tax authority of
the issuer and not the investor, and the gross-up is in relation to the dividend payments only not
principal.
Point of Non-Viability (PONV):
11. The issuance of any new shares as a result of the Point of Non-Viability must occur prior
to any public sector injection of capital so that the capital provided by the public sector is not
diluted.
Further guidance on grandfathering:
12. If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for grandfathering begins its final five-year amortisation
period prior to 1st January 2018, the base for grandfathering in this case must take into account
the amortised amount, not the full nominal amount. As for the rate, if a Tier 2 instrument eligible
for grandfathering begins its final amortisation period on 1st January 2018, then individual
instruments will continue to be amortised at a rate of 20% per year while the grandfathering cap
will bereduced at a rate of 10% per year. Note that each tranche needs to be treated as a separate
tranche.
Amortisation of Tier 2 instruments:
13. During the last 5 years of the eligibility before maturity, the eligibility of Tier 2 instruments
is written down by 20% per year, i.e. the eligible amount is calculated by multiplying:
i. The nominal amount of the instruments on the first day of the final five year period of their
contractual maturity divided by the number of calendar days in that period;
ii. The number of remaining calendar days until the contractual maturity of the instruments.
21

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 21 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Documents required to be submitted for the application to issue new Tier Capital
Instruments
1. The CN-01 form should be completed, filled and signed by the bank's Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and Head
of Risk.
2. Full terms and conditions, together with the risk factors relating to the instrument.
i. Instruments of Islamic banks issued through an SPV must also provide the contract
between the bank and the SPV
3. Shareholder Approval:
i. Tier capital instruments require shareholder approval.
ii. The approval shall relate to an issuance of the specific planned Tier capital instrument
(Additional Tier 1 or subordinated Tier 2). Moreover, the approval should clearly mention
that the instrument is subordinated; coupon payments may not be paid under certain
circumstances, and contains a Point of Non-Viability (PONV) condition.
4. Legal opinion letters:
i. Legal Opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
terms and conditions are compliant with the requirements detailed in the Capital
Regulations, Standards and Guidance.
ii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
obligations contained in terms and conditions will constitute legal, valid, binding and
enforceable obligations.
iii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
Self-Assessment of the issuing bank meets the Conditions and the Capital Regulations
5. Capital planning and forecast:
The Business as Usual (BAU) case should be formulated, such as:
a) Amount of assumed issuance and the expected issuance date (e.g. Q1 2018).
b) Capital structure: % in CET1, AT1, Tier 2 and deductions (using Basel 3 capital
components)
c) Five (5) year forecast of the Balance sheet, Profit & loss P&L, Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
d) Amortization of Tier Capital Issuances: Subordinated Tier 2 in the last 5 years prior to
maturity and AT1 Instruments, if they fall under a grandfathering rule, for example, 10%
per year.
e) Key assumptions and analysis (e.g. on balance growth, asset structure, conversation
factors CCF for off balance, operational and market risk, total assets growth, of which
businesses that will be the main driver for such growth) and CRWA (i.e. on balance sheet
exposure in different industry) in numerical as well as qualitative aspect.
6. Stress Testing Scenarios:
The Stress Testing should be submitted in form of a presentation including the underlying data in
Excel sheet.
Two Scenarios should be provided as part of the presentation:
a) Top 2 customers defaulting (point in time analysis permitted: End of Year): Definition of
top 2 customers; name of top 2 customers; exposure (including on and off balance
exposures); what type of eligible collateral and value of collateral, with two sub-scenarios:
i. With average provisioning level of similar assets, and
ii. 75% provisioning level
b) Central Bank’s Macro-Economic Stress Test
 Assumptions and results of the latest Macroeconomic stress tests performed by the
Central Bank.
22