[Document: PI.pdf, Page 141]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The ECAI is being paid by rated entities, obligors, originators, underwriters,
arrangers, or subscribers for services other than issuing credit ratings or providing
access to the ECAI’s credit ratings;
(iv) The ECAI is providing a preliminary indication or similar indication of credit quality to
an entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger prior to being hired to determine
the final credit rating for the entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger; and
(v) The ECAI has a direct or indirect ownership interest in a rated entity or obligor, or a
rated entity or obligor has a direct or indirect ownership interest in the ECAI.
12. An ECAI should disclose the general nature of its compensation arrangements with rated
entities, obligors, lead underwriters, or arrangers. When the ECAI receives compensation
unrelated to its credit rating services from a party such as a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead
underwriter, or arranger, the ECAI should disclose such compensation as a percentage of the
total annual compensation received from that party in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate. An ECAI should disclose in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate, if it receives 10% or more of its annual revenue from a single party
(e.g., a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead underwriter, arranger, or subscriber, or any of their
affiliates).
E. Resources
13. ECAI should possess sufficient human and technical resources to produce high quality
credit ratings. Evidence of resource sufficiency includes:
(i) Technical expertise of the people should be sufficient to conduct the analysis to
support the assignment of ratings, and to maintain contact with senior and
operational levels within the entities that are rated. In particular, ECAIs should assign
analysts with appropriate knowledge and experience to assess the creditworthiness
of the type of entity or obligation being rated; and
(ii) With respect to technical resources, an ECAI is expected to apply quantitative
techniques and models that can appropriately process and analyze the quantities of
data required to support the rating process.
F. Credibility
14. The ECAI must demonstrate that it enjoys credibility in the markets in which it operates.
Such credibility is gauged on the basis of:
(i) The extent to which it meets the resources requirements stated above;
(ii) The extent to which independent parties (investors, insurers etc.) rely on the ECAI’s
risk ratings; and
(iii) The existence of internal procedures to preventmisuse of confidential information.
142

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 142]
CBUAE Classification: Public
G. No Abuse of Unsolicited Ratings
15. The Central Bank may request the ECAI to demonstrate that it has not used unsolicited
ratings to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings. If the Central Bank becomes aware
of an ECAI using unsolicited ratings to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings, the
Central Bank may consider whether it is appropriate to revoke the recognition of the ECAI as
eligible for capital adequacy purposes.
H. Cooperation with the Supervisor
16. Eligible ECAIs should notify the Central Bank of significant changes to methodologies,
and should provide the Central Bank with sufficient access to external ratings and other relevant
data to support initial and ongoing determination of eligibility.
I. Code of Conduct and Regulation
17. The ECAI must adopt and adhere to a code of conduct that is consistent with the IOSCO
CRA Code. The ECAI must be subject to effective supervision on an ongoing basis by a
competent regulatory authority that has adopted a regulatory regime consistent with the IOSCO
CRA Code, and that incorporates a registration system for ECAIs.
III. Recognition of ECAIs
18. The Central Bank’s standards for capital adequacy include mappings that identify risk
weights for various types of exposures using a scale that corresponds most closely to the rating
system used by Standard & Poor’s. This is done for purposes of exposition and for consistency
with the BCBS framework. However, banks should not interpret use of this scale as a Central
Bank endorsement of any particular rating agency. Banks may select among all eligible rating
agencies as appropriate for purposes of determining risk weights.
19. On the basis of information assessed by the Central Bank, the following entities currently
meet the criteria for eligible ECAIs described in this Guidance:
(i) Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services;
(ii) Moody’s Investors Service;
(iii) Fitch Ratings; and
(iv) Capital Intelligence.
20. The Central Bank has concluded that banks can use the ratings of any of the above ECAIs.
Banks should be aware that the Central Bank regularly reassesses the extent to which any ECAI
meets the criteria stated in this Guidance. Banks must take steps to confirm that any ratings used
in capital adequacy calculations are obtained from ECAIs that continue to be viewed as eligible
by the Central Bank. Additional entities may be approved as eligible ECAIs in due course.
21. Based on available information regarding the rating processes of these ECAIs, the Central
Bank has established the correspondence shown in Table 1 between the long-term rating scales
of the various ECAIs. However, if a bank determines that a different mapping is more appropriate,
the bank should use that alternative mapping, provided the results are at least as conservative as
using the mapping below.
143

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 143]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Table 1: Long-Term Rating Correspondence
S & P Fitch Moody’s Capital Intelligence
AAA to AA‐ AAA to AA‐ Aaa to Aa3 AAA to AA-
A+ to A‐ A+ to A‐ A1 to A3 A+ to A-
BBB+ to BBB‐ BBB+ to BBB‐ Baa1 to Baa3 BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB‐ BB+ to BB‐ Ba1 to Ba3 BB+ to BB-
B+ to B‐ B+ to B‐ B1 to B3 B+ to B-
Below B- Below B- Below B3 Below B-
Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated
22. For certain aspects of capital adequacy calculations, short‐term ratings are used. Based
on available information regarding the rating processes of these ECAIs, the Central Bank has
established the correspondence shown in Table 2 between the short-term rating scales of the
eligible ECAIs. However, as with the long-term ratings, if a bank determines that a different
mapping is more appropriate, the bank should use that alternative mapping, provided the results
are at least as conservative as using the mapping below.
Table 2: Short-Term Rating Correspondence
S & P Fitch Moody’s Capital Intelligence
A‐1+, A‐1 F1+, F1 P‐1 A1+, A1
A‐2 F2 P‐2 A2
A‐3 F3 P‐3 A3
Below A‐3 Below F3 Not prime Below A3
IV. Bank Use of Ratings
A. Bank Use of ECAI Ratings
23. For the purpose of applying ECAI ratings to derive risk‐weights for exposures, banks
should apply the following process:
(i) Identify an ECAI (the “nominated ECAI”) whose assigned ratings the bank intends
to use to derive risk weights for some type of exposure that is subject to an external
ratings‐based approach under Central Bank standards;
(ii) Confirm that the nominated ECAIs can provide reasonable coverage of the bank’s
exposures in terms of the types of counterparties and the geographical regions
covered;
(iii) Document the selection of the ECAI and the analysis demonstrating that the ratings
of ECAI are appropriate for the specific use;
(iv) Notify the Central Bank of the nominated ECAI and of the intended application of the
ratings of that ECAI to the bank’s external ratings‐based calculations; and
144

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 144]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(v) Use the ratings of the ECAI within external ratings‐based calculations consistently.
24. Banks must use the chosen ECAIs and their ratings consistently for each type of claim for
which the ECAI and its ratings are approved, and must seek the consent of the Central Bank on
any subsequent changes to the application of those ratings. Banks may not “cherry‐pick” the
ratings provided by different ECAIs, and must maintain records of which ECAIs they use for
various purposes within capital adequacy calculations. Banks may not use unsolicited ratings that
may be provided by any ECAI.
25. When banks use external ratings to assign risk weight to securitisation exposures under
the Central Bank’s Standards on Capital for Securitisation Exposures, additional operational
requirements apply to the ratings and the ECAI that is the source of the ratings.
B. Multiple Ratings
26. If there is only one rating by a nominated ECAI for a particular claim, that rating should be
used to determine the risk weight of the exposure.