
(IFRS). This valuation must be accepted by an external auditor.
Question 3: Are capital shortfalls of non-consolidated insurance companies to be deducted from
CET1?
Yes, any capital shortfall on a company has to be deducted.
Question 4: If the Bank meets minimum CET1 ratios can the excess CET1 also be counted to meet
AT1 and Total CAR?
Yes.
Question 5: Please clarify whether minority interest related to any other regulated financial entity
(whichis not a bank) should be included or not.
Onlyminority interest of the subsidiary that are subject to the same minimum prudential standards
and level of supervision as a bank be eligible for inclusion in the capital.
Question 6: Is the bank able to include the profit & loss in the year-end CAR calculation before the
issuance of the audited financial statements?
Bank may include interim profit/ yearend profit in CET1 capital only if reviewed or audited by
external auditors. Furthermore, the expected dividend should be deducted in Q4.
Question 7: Is subordinated Debt currently considered Tier 2 as per Basel III, hence no
amortization is required?
Grandfathering rule plus amortization in last 5 years - refer to Standards for Capital Adequacy of
banks in UAE, Tier Capital Supply Standard- paragraph 27 (iv)(b) . Reference should also be
made to the Tier Capital Instruments Standards.
Question 8: Do dividends need to be deducted from CET1 after the proposal from the Board or
after Central Bank approval or after approval from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting?
Please refer to Question 6
7

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 7]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 9: How do you treat goodwill and intangible assets arising on an insurance subsidiary?
Should it be considered since the standards mentions insurance subsidiaries are to be completely
deconsolidated and hence there will be no goodwill?
Goodwill and other intangible must be deducted in the calculation of CET1. In particular deduction is also
applied to any goodwill included in the valuation of significantinvestments in the capital of banking, financial
and insurance entities that are outside the scope of consolidation.
Question 10: Subsidiaries which are used for providing manpower services at cost, should these
be classified as commercial entities or financial entities?
A non-financial sector entity is an entity that is not:
a) a financial sector entity; or
b) a direct extension of banking; or
c) ancillary to banking; or
d) leasing, factoring, the management of unit trusts, the management of data processing
services or any other similar services"
Question 11: Obtain an understanding to the timeline by when the Central Bank may advise specific
Banks of specific countercyclical buffers?
The underlying process for the implementation of countercyclical buffers will be set and
communicated during 2018.
Question 12: Criterion 4 for Additional Tier 1 capital. Can the Central Bank give additional guidance
on what will be considered to be an incentive to redeem?
The following list provides some examples of what would be considered to be an incentive to
redeem:
A call option combined with an increase in the credit spread of the instrument if the call is not
exercised.
A call option combined with a requirement or an investor option to convert the instrument into
shares if the call is not exercised.
A call option combined with a change in reference rate where the credit spread over the second
reference rate is greater than the initial payment rate less the swap rate (ie the fixed rate paid to
the call date to receive the second reference rate). For example, if the initial reference rate is
0.9%, the credit spread over the initial reference rate is 2% (ie the initial payment rate is 2.9%),
and the swap rate to the call date is 1.2%, a credit spread over the second reference rate greater
than 1.7% (2.9-1.2%) would be considered an incentive to redeem.
Conversion from a fixed rate to a floating rate (or vice versa) in combination with a call option
without any increase in credit spread will not in itself be viewed as an incentive to redeem.
However, as required by criteria 5, the bank must not do anything that creates an expectation that
the call will be exercised.
The above is not an exhaustive list of what is considered an incentive to redeem and so banks
should seek guidance from Central Bank on specific features and instruments. Banks must not
expect Central Bank to approve the exercise of a call option for the purpose of satisfying investor
expectations that a call will be exercised.
8

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 8]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 13: Criteria 4 and 5 for Additional Tier 1 capital. An instrument is structured with a first
call date after 5 years but thereafter is callable quarterly at every interest payment due date (subject
to supervisory approval). The instrument does not have a step-up. Does instrument meet criteria 4
and 5 in terms of being perpetual with no incentive to redeem?
Criterion 5 allows an instrument to be called by an issuer after a minimum period of 5 years. It
does not preclude calling at times after that date or preclude multiple dates on which a call may
be exercised. However, the specification of multiple dates upon which a call might be exercised
must not be used to create an expectation that the instrument will be redeemed at the first call
date, as this is prohibited by criterion.
Question 14: Can an option to call the instrument after five years but prior to the start of the
amortisation period viewed as an incentive to redeem?
No, it can’t be viewed as an incentive to redeem.
Question 15: With regards to countercyclical buffer, what are “private sector credit exposures”?
What does “geographic location” mean? How should the geographic location of exposures on the
banking book and the trading book be identified? What is the difference between (the jurisdiction
of) “ultimate risk” and (the jurisdiction of) “immediate counterparty” exposures?
“Private sector credit exposures” refers to exposures to private sector counterparties which attract
a credit risk capital charge in the banking book, and the risk weighted equivalent trading book
capital charges for specific risk, the incremental risk charge, and securitisation. Interbank
exposures and exposures to the public sector are excluded, but non-bank financial sector
exposures are included. The geographic location of a bank’s private sector credit exposures is
determined by the location of the counterparties that make up the capital charge, irrespective of
the bank’s own physical location or its country of incorporation. The location is identified according
to the concept of “ultimate risk”. The geographic location identifies the jurisdiction that has
announced countercyclical capital buffer add-on rate is to be applied by the bank to the
corresponding credit exposure, appropriately weighted
The concepts of “ultimate risk” and “immediate risk” are those used by the BIS' International
Banking Statistics. The jurisdiction of “immediate counterparty” refers to the jurisdiction of
residence of immediate counterparties, while the jurisdiction of “ultimate risk” is where the final
risk lies. For the purpose of the countercyclical capital buffer, banks should use, where possible,
exposures on an “ultimate risk” basis.
For example, a bank could face the situation where the exposures to a borrower is in one
jurisdiction (country A), and the risk mitigant (e.g. guarantee) is in another jurisdiction (country B).
In this case, the “immediate counterparty” is in country A, but the “ultimate risk” is in country B.
This means that if the bank has a debt claim on an investment vehicle, the ultimate risk exposure
should be allocated to the jurisdiction where the vehicle (or if applicable, its parent/guarantor)
resides. If the bank has an equity claim, the ultimate risk exposure should be allocated
proportionately to the jurisdictions where the ultimate risk exposures of the vehicle resides.
9

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 9]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix
Appendix 1: Banking, Securities, insurance and other financial entities - Significant
investment (ownership in the entity more than 10%)
Significant investment (ownership in the entity more than 10% )
Bank's
Entity Investment Listed/ ownership in Investment
Entity
activity Classification Unlisted the entity Amount
(% of Holding)
A Banking Banking Book Listed 40% 60
B Insurance Banking Book Listed 18% 35
C Securities Banking Book Unlisted 16% 28
D Banking Trading Book Listed 11% 18
a. Total significant investment (Banking, Securities, insurance and
other financial entities)
141
b. Bank's CET1 (after applying all the regulatory deduction except section
3.9 and 3.10 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard) 1000
c. Limit (10 % of bank's CET1) 100
d. Amount to be deducted from bank's CET1 41
e. Amount not deducted to considered for aggregate threshold deduction 100
The remaining amount of 100 is to be distributed amongst the investments on a pro rata / proportionate
basis and risk weighted at 250% (assuming no threshold deduction apply).The total of 250 RWA (100
*250%) will be distributed as follows.
Calculation of
as a % of all
Investment Investment amount not Risk
Entity such RWA Section
Classification Amount deducted to be risk weight
investment
weighted
A Banking Book 60 42% 43 (100 x 43%) 250% 106.38 Credit Risk
B Banking Book 35 25% 25 (100 x 25%) 250% 62.06 Credit Risk
C Banking Book 28 20% 20 (100 x 20%) 250% 49.65 Credit Risk
D Trading Book 18 13% 13 (100 x 13%) Equity Risk - Market risk section
141 100% 100
10

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 10]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 2:Banking, Securities, insurance and other financial entities - Investment
with ownership not more than 10%
Investment (ownership not more than 10%)
Bank's
Investment Listed/ ownership in Investment
Entity Entity activity
Classification Unlisted the entity Amount
(% of Holding)
Banking
E Banking Book Listed 10% 50
Trading
F Banking Book Listed 3% 11
Banking
G Securities Book Unlisted 8% 40
Banking
H Insurance Book Listed 2% 9
a.Total investment (Banking, Securities, insurance and other financial
entities)
110
b. Bank's CET1 (after applying all the regulatory deduction except
section 3.9 and 3.10 of the Tier Capital Supply Standards) 1000
c. Limit (10% of bank's CET1)
100
d. Amount to be deducted from bank's CET1 (a-c)
10
e. Amount not deducted to be risk weighted (Remaining amount) (a-d)
100
The remaining amount of 75 is to be distributed amongst the investments on a pro rata /
proportionate basis and risk weighted as stated below
Invest as a % of all Calculation of
Investment Listed/
Entity ment such amount not Risk weight
Classification Unlisted RWA Section
Amount investment deducted to be risk
weighted
Banking 45.50 (100 x 34.5 Credit
E Book 50 45.5% 45.5 %) Listed 100% 0 Risk
Trading 10 (100 x Equity Risk - Market risk
F Book 11 10.0% 10.00%) Listed section
Banking Book 36.4 (100 x Unlist 40.5 Credit
G 40 36.4% 36.4%) ed 150% 0 Risk
Banking 8.2 (100 x Credit
H Book 9 8.2% 8.2%) Listed 100% 6.00 Risk
110 100% 100
11