[Document: document.pdf, Page 121]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Position Standard units (kg) Maturity
Long 128 4 months
Short -160 5 months
Long 96 13 months
Short -96 4 years
Step 1:
First express each commodity position in terms of the standard unit of measurement, and value
in the reporting currency at the current spot price.
The following is the current situation:
Current spot price of the 5.00 EUR per kg
commodity per unit (kg) in
local currency
Current EUR/AED FX spot 4.25 1 EUR = 4.25 AED
rate
This is done the same way as for the simplified approach.
Position Standard Spot Value FX spot rate 1 Value (AED) Maturity
units (kg) price (EUR) EUR = 4.25 AED
Long 128 5.00 640 4.25 2,720 4 months
Short -160 5.00 -800 4.25 -3,400 5 months
Long 96 5.00 480 4.25 2,040 13 months
Short -96 5.00 -480 4.25 -2,040 4 years
Step 2:
Slot each position into a time band in the maturity ladder according to its remaining maturity.
Physical stocks should be allocated to the first time band.
Maturity ladder
Time bands Positions (AED)
Long Short
0-1 months
1-3 months
3-6 months 2,720 -3,400
6-12 months
1-2 years 2,040
2-3 years
Over 3 years -2,040
Step 3:
Apply a capital charge: of 1.5% to the sum of the matched long and short positions in each time
band to capture spread risk.
Maturity ladder Matched position Capital charge for
Time Positions (AED) spread risk rate =
bands 1.5%
Long Short
0-1
months
1-3
months
119

[Document: document.pdf, Page 122]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3-6 2,720 -3,400 2,720 81.6*
months
6-12
months
1-2 years 2,040
2-3 years
Over 3 -2,040
years
*start with the 3-6 months’ time band.
Multiply the sum of the ling and short matched positions by the spread rate 1.5%, to calculate the
capital charge: (AED 2,720 + AED 2,720) * 1.5% = AED 81.6
Step 4:
Apply a capital charge of 0.6% to the residual net position carried forward to the next relevant
time band, multiplied by the number of time bands it is carried forward.
The maturity ladder approach allows for netting between unmatched long and short positions
across time bands. The residual net position in a time band can be carried forward to the next
relevant time band, thus offsetting exposures in time bands further out. Because this is imprecise,
resulting in an “imperfect hedge”; a capital charge is required.
The residual net position in the 3-6 months’ band is short AED 680. This net position is carried
forward two time bands to offset exposures in the next relevant time band, the 1-2 years’ band.
Maturity ladder Matched Net Capital Capital
Time Positions (AED) position position charge for charge
bands spread risk for
Long Short rate = 1.5% positions
carried
forward
rate =
0.6%
0-1
months
1-3
months
3-6 2,720 -3,400 2,720 -680 (3400- 81.6 8.16*
months 2720)
6-12
months
1-2 2,040 -680
years
2-3
years
Over 3 -2,040
years
*The capital charge is calculated as follows: AED 680 * 2 * 0.6% = AED 8.16
Step 5:
Repeat step 3 and step 4 for each time band.
When determining the matched position in each time band, take into account the residual net
position carried forward.
120

[Document: document.pdf, Page 123]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Maturity ladder Matched Net Capital Capital
Time Positions (AED) position position charge for charge for
bands spread risk positions
Long Short rate = 1.5% carried
forward
rate =
0.6%
0-1
months
1-3
months
3-6 2,720 -3,400 2,720 -680 (3400- 81.6 8.16
months 2720)
6-12
months
1-2 2,040 -680 680 1,360 20.4* 16.32**
years
2-3
years
Over 3 1,360 -2,040 1,360 - 680 40.8***
years
*(680+680)*1.5% = AED 20.4
**(1,360*2*0.6%) = AED 16.32
***(1,360+1360) *1.5% = AED 40.8
Step 6:
Apply a capital charge of 15% to the overall long or short net open position.
The net position in the final time band is subject to a capital charge of 15% as to say 680 * 15%
= AED 102
Step 7:
Derive the total capital charge by summing the charges for spread risk, for positions carried
forward and for the overall net open position.
Capital charges AED
Charge for spread risk 142.8
Charge for the positions carried forward 24.48
Charge for the overall net position 102
Total capital charge 269.28
In this example, the capital charge calculated using the maturity ladder approach; AED 269.28 is
significantly lower than that calculated using the simplified approach, AED 408.
E. Options
Simplified approach
A bank holds 100 shares currently valued at USD 10, and also holds an equivalent number of put
options with a strike price of USD 11 (each option entitles the bank to sell one share).
Since these are equity options, they are subject to the capital charges for general market risk and
specific risk according to the standardised framework for equity risk. The capital charge is levied
121

[Document: document.pdf, Page 124]
CBUAE Classification: Public
at 8% for general market risk and 8% for specific risk, giving a summed charge of 16%.
Market value of 100 shares = USD 1,000
First, multiply the market value by the sum of general market risk and specific risk charges.
USD 1,000 x 16% = USD 160
Then, calculate the amount the option is in-the-money.
(USD 11 - USD 10) x 100 = USD 100
The capital charge is the general market risk and specific risk charge less the amount the option
is in-the-money.
USD 160 - USD 100 = USD 60
A similar methodology applies for options whose underlying is a foreign currency, an interest rate
related instrument or a commodity.
Another example for simplified approach
A bank holds 500 shares currently valued at USD 25.50 and holds an equivalent number of put
options with a strike price of USD 26.25 (each option entitles the bank to sell one share).
The capital charge is calculated as follows:
Market value of 500 shares = USD 12,750
USD 12,750 x 16% (that is, 8% specific plus 8% general market risk) = USD 2,040
The amount the option is in-the-money = (USD 26.25 - USD 25.50) x 500 = USD 375.
This gives a capital charge of USD 2,040 - USD 375 = USD 1,665
122

[Document: document.pdf, Page 125]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IX. Operational Risk
I. Introduction and Scope
This section of the guidance supports the Operational Risk Standard in clarifying the
calculation of the Operational risk capital requirement.
Operational risk has existed since banks have been in business. However, it is only in
recent decades that the management of operational risk (including measurement techniques) has
evolved into a distinct discipline, long after this was the case for both credit risk and market risk.
In this same period, the significance of operational risk in banks became widely
recognised. This development was influenced by numerous high-profile operational risk events
and related losses, along with such factors as banks' greater reliance on technology and
increased use of outsourcing, the growing sophistication of cyber threats, and the pace of change
in the financial services sector.
II. Clarification
Operational risk includes legal and compliance risk but excludes strategic and reputational
risk. The exclusion of strategic and reputational risk is because they relate more to indirect losses,
the definition, measurement and quantification of which would give rise to significant complexities.
The operational risk capital charge represents the amount of capital that a bank should
maintain as a cushion against losses arising from operational risk.
The operational risk capital charge is first calculated using the appropriate approach under
Basel III. It is then converted into a risk-weighted asset equivalent by multiplying the charge by
12.5 and adding the result to the total risk-weighted assets for credit risk.
III. Approaches
The calculation of the operational risk capital charge is covered under the Standards for
Capital Adequacy of banks in the UAE.
The approaches represent a continuum of increasing sophistication and risk sensitivity.
The charge is to be calculated using one of the following two approaches:
a. Basic Indicator Approach (BIA)
The Basic Indicator Approach (BIA) is a simple approach for calculating the capital charge
for operational risk. It can be used by banks that are not internationally active, as well as by banks
that are internationally active but may not yet have risk management systems in place for using
the more advanced approaches for measuring operational risk.
While the approach is available for all banks as a 'point of entry', irrespective of their level
of sophistication, Central Bank expects internationally active banks and banks with significant
operational risk to discontinue indefinitely with the Basic Indicator Approach.
The Basic Indicator Approach Components
The operational risk capital charge under the BIA is based on two components:
123

[Document: document.pdf, Page 126]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. The exposure indicator, represented by the Gross Income (GI) of a bank as a whole.
2. The fixed factor, alpha (α), set by the Basel Committee.
The formula for calculating the capital charge for operational risk under the BIA is as follows:
𝐾 = [∑(𝐺𝐼 × 𝛼)]⁄𝑛
𝐵𝐼𝐴 1..𝑛
Where:
K = The capital charge under the BIA;
BIA
GI = Annual gross income, where positive, over the previous three years;
n = Number of the previous three years for which gross income is positive; and
α =15%, relating the industry wide level of required capital to the industry wide level of
the indicator.
1. Gross Income of the Bank
Gross income is a broad indicator that serves as a proxy for the likely exposure of a bank
to operational risk. It is the total of net interest income plus net non-interest income of a bank as
a whole. Net interest income is defined as interest income of a bank (for example, from loans and
advances) minus the interest expenses (for example, interest paid on deposits). Net non-interest
income is defined as fees and commissions earned minus the non-interest expenses (that is, fees
and commissions paid) and other income.
Gross income used in the calculation of the capital charge for operational risk should be:
- Gross of any provisions, for example, for unpaid interest. This is because such amounts
should have normally formed part of a bank's income but have been set aside for likely
credit losses.
- Gross of operating expenses, including fees paid to outsourcing service providers. This is
because outsourcing of activities does not fully transfer operational risk to the service
provider. Outsourcing is the strategic use of outside resources to perform business
functions that are traditionally managed by internal staff. Outsourcing offers the advantage
of access to specialised and experienced personnel that may not be available internally,
and enables banks to concentrate on their core business and reduce costs.
Only sustainable, renewable and recurrent sources of income are to be used as the basis
for calculating the operational risk capital charge. Banks should perform a reconciliation between
the gross income reported on the capital adequacy return and the audited financial statements.
This information should be available to the Central Bank upon request. As such, gross income
should exclude:
- realised profits/losses from the sale of securities classified as 'held to maturity' and 'available
for sale', which typically constitute items of the banking book under certain accounting
standards. The intention is to hold such securities for some time or up to their full term and
not for trading purposes. Their sale does not represent sustainable income from normal
business.
- Held to maturity securities are those that the bank intends to hold indefinitely or until the
security reaches its maturity. Available for sale securities includes securities that are neither
held for trading purposes nor intended to be held till maturity. These are securities that the
bank intends to hold in the short or medium term, but may ultimately sell. Banking book relates
124

[Document: document.pdf, Page 127]
CBUAE Classification: Public
to positions that are held to maturity with no trading intent associated with them. Most loans
and advances are included in the banking book as they are intended to be held until maturity.
At times, there may also be liquid positions assigned to the banking book if they are intended
to be held over a longer term or to maturity.
- Extraordinary or irregular items as well as income derived from insurance claims. Again,
these items are to be excluded, as they are not sustainable sources of income for a bank.
Banks sometimes outsource certain activities, such as processing and maintaining data
on loan collection services to external service providers. Alternatively, banks may act as service
providers to other banks. This results in the payment or receipt of a fee for the outsourced service.
Basel provides the following guidance for the treatment of outsourcing fees paid or
received, while calculating the gross income for the purpose of calculating the operational risk
capital charge:
- Outsourcing fees paid by a bank to a service provider do not reduce the gross income of
the bank.
- Outsourcing fees received by a bank for providing outsourcing services are included in the
definition of gross income.
2. Alpha
Alpha is a fixed factor, set by the Basel Committee. It serves as a proxy for the industry-
wide relationship between operational risk loss experience of a bank and the aggregate level of
the operational risk exposure as reflected in its gross income.
Treatment of Negative Gross Income
The operational risk capital charge under the BIA is assumed that a bank has positive
gross income for all of the previous three years. However, some banks may have negative gross
income for some year(s), for example, resulting from poor financial performance. Figures for any
year in which annual gross income is negative or zero shall be excluded from both the numerator
and denominator when calculating the gross income average.
On this basis, the figures presented in the 3 years' calculations should reconcile (or be
reconcilable) with the bank’s audited financial statements.
b. Standardised Approach (SA)
The Standardised Approach (SA) represents a refinement along the continuum of
approaches for calculating the operational risk capital charge. While this approach also relies on
fixed factors as a percentage of gross income, it allows banks to use up to eight such factors,
called betas, depending upon their business lines.
The calculation of the operational risk charge under this approach is more risk sensitive
than the BIA.
The Standardised Approach Capital Charge
Under the Standardised Approach (SA), the operational risk capital charge is based on
the operational risk capital charges for individual business lines in a bank. The formula for
calculating the operational risk capital charge under the SA is as follows:
125

[Document: document.pdf, Page 128]
CBUAE Classification: Public
𝐾 = { ∑ max [∑(𝐺𝐼 × 𝛽 ), 0]}⁄3
𝑇𝑆𝐴 1−8 1−8
𝑦𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑠 1−3
Where:
K = the capital charge under the Standardised Approach
TSA
GI = the annual gross income in a given year, as defined in the Basic Indicator Approach
1-8
(BIA), for each of the eight business lines
β = a fixed percentage, set by the committee, relating the level of required capital to the
1-8
level of the gross income for each of the eight business lines
The Standardised Approach Components
The Standardised Approach identifies two main components to be used in calculating the
operational risk capital charge:
1. Gross Income of Eight Business Lines
Eight business lines are recommended for use by the Basel Committee in calculating the
operational risk charge under the SA. These business lines are considered as being
representative of the various kinds of businesses undertaken by banks. The identified business
lines briefed below are:
1. Corporate finance: banking arrangements and facilities provided to large commercial
enterprises, multinational companies, non-bank financial institutions, government
departments etc.
2. Trading and sales: treasury operations, buying and selling of securities, currencies and
commodities for proprietary and client accounts.
3. Retail banking: financing arrangements for private individuals, retail clients and small
businesses such as personal loans, credit cards, auto loans, etc. as well as other facilities
such as trust and estates and investment advice.
4. Commercial banking: financing arrangements for commercial enterprises, including
project finance, real estate, trade finance, factoring, leasing, guarantees, bills of exchange
etc.
5. Payment and settlement: activities relating to payments and collections, interbank funds
transfer, clearing and settlement.
6. Agency services: acting as issuing and paying agents for corporate clients, providing
custodial services etc.
7. Asset management: managing funds of clients on a pooled, segregated, retail,
institutional, open or closed basis under a mandate.
8. Retail brokerage: broking services provided to customers that are retail investors rather
than institutional investors.
Under the SA, the gross income is calculated for each of the eight business lines. It serves
as a proxy for the likely scale of exposure of that business line of the bank to operational risk.
Since all income has to be allocated to a business line, the sum of the gross income of the eight
business lines should equal the gross income for the bank as a whole
126

[Document: document.pdf, Page 129]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Just like in the Basic Indicator Approach, gross income for SA comprises net interest
income plus net non-interest income as defined in the Operational Risk section of the Standards
re Capital Adequacy.
2. Beta
Beta serves as a proxy for the industry-wide relationship between the operational risk loss
experience and the level of operational risk exposure as reflected in the gross income for a
business line. It is representative of the amount of loss that can be incurred by a bank given that
level of exposure (represented by gross income) in a business line.
The beta factors for the eight business lines as set by the Basel Committee are as follows:
Beta Business line Beta factor
β Corporate finance 18%
1
β Trading and sales 18%
2
β Retail banking 12%
3
β Commercial banking 15%
4
β Payment and settlement 18%
5
β Agency services 15%
6
β Asset management 12%
7
β Retail brokerage 12%
8
The beta factors have been set within a range of 12-18% depending upon the degree of
operational risk perceived in a business line. Thus, a 12% beta factor for retail banking indicates
that, in general, the operational risk in retail banking is lower than the operational risk in
commercial banking. The latter, which has a beta of 15%, carries a lower operational risk than,
for example, payment and settlement, which carries a beta factor of 18%.
Treatment of Negative Gross Income from Business lines
Some banks may have negative gross income for some years in some business lines.
This will result in a negative capital charge for the business line for that year. If the gross income
and the resulting capital charge of a specific business line is negative, the aggregate of the capital
charges across business lines for that year could still be positive, so long as the gross income
from other business lines is positive.
The following guidance applies for treatment of negative capital charges under the
Standardised Approach:
- In any given year, negative charges in business lines may offset positive capital charges
in other business lines without any limit.
- If the total capital charge, after offsetting negative and positive capital charges of business
lines, is negative for a given year, then the numerator for that year will be set to zero.
- If negative gross income distorts the operational risk capital charge calculated under the
SA, the Central Bank will consider appropriate supervisory action under Pillar 2.
Calculating the Operational risk capital charge under the Standardised Approach (SA)
The calculation of the capital charge for operational risk under the SA follows the following steps:
127

[Document: document.pdf, Page 130]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Step 1: Calculate the capital charge for each business line using its gross income and applicable
beta factor in year 1.
If the gross income from a business line is negative, the capital charge for that business line in
year 1 will be negative.
Step 2: Sum the eight capital charges of business lines for Year 1.
In a year, negative capital charges in some business lines may offset positive capital charges for
other business lines without any limit.
Steps 3 and 4: Follow steps 1 and 2 for the other two years.
Step 5: Calculate the 3-year average of the aggregated capital charges. Where the aggregate
capital charge across all business lines in a given year is negative, then the input to the numerator
for that year will be zero. The denominator will remain 3, representing the three years included in
the calculation.
Central Bank supports the use of the Beta given in the Standards re Capital Adequacy as well as
here in this guidance above as the basis for the capital calculations under SA.
c. Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA) Capital Charge
The Alternative Standardised Approach provides a different exposure indicator for two
of the eight business lines, retail banking and commercial banking. These activities essentially
comprise traditional banking business and still represent the main business of banks in several
jurisdictions.
Calculation of Operational Risk Capital Charge under Alternative Standardised
Approach (ASA)
Using the ASA, the operational risk capital charge for retail banking and commercial
banking will be based on the following formulas:
K = β x m x LA
RB RB RB
Where:
K = is the capital charge for retail banking
rb
m = 0.035
β = is the beta factor for retail banking (12%)
rb
LA = is the total outstanding retail loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of
rb
provisions), averaged over the past three years
K = β x m x LA
CB CB CB
Where:
K = is the capital charge for commercial banking
CB
m = 0.035
β = is the beta factor for commercial banking (15%)
CB
LA = is the total outstanding commercial loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of
CB
provisions), averaged over the past three years
128

[Document: document.pdf, Page 131]
CBUAE Classification: Public
For the other six business lines, the calculation of the operational risk capital charge will be based
on the gross income and beta factor of that business line, as prescribed under the SA.
Further Options under the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)
Further options are available at under the ASA for calculating the operational risk capital
charge to address problems in disaggregation of the exposure indicator among business lines by
banks. However, the greater the disaggregation, the better will be the alignment of the capital
charge with a bank's operational risk profile.
Available options relate to using loans and advances in commercial and retail banking
business lines and gross income in the other six business lines as the exposure indicators with
different beta factor combinations:
- Option 1 – using a common beta factor of 15% for commercial loans and retail loans, and
the SA beta factors for the other six business lines
- Option 2 – using the SA beta factors of 15% and 12%, respectively, for commercial loans
and retail loans and a common beta factor of 18% for the other six business lines
- Option 3 – using a common beta of 15% for commercial loans and retail loans and a
common beta factor of 18% for the other six business lines
For further details, kindly refer to the Appendix below.
IV. Shari’ah Implementation
Banks that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of
Shari’ah law and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Operational Risk
Standard, shall, for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the
relevant risk weighted asset in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner
compliant to the Shari’ah law.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
V. Frequently Asked Questions
A. Basic Indicator Approach
Question 1: If a bank incurs a negative gross income in any of the previous three years,
will it be taken into account under the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA)?
The basis for working out the capital charge for operational risk under the BIA is three-year
average of positive gross income. If the gross income for any of the previous three years is
negative or zero, the figures for that year will be excluded from both the numerator and the
denominator when calculating the capital charge. The negative gross income will not be added to
the numerator and the denominator will exclude the year in which the income is negative.
As mentioned under the Basic Indicator Approach, if negative gross income distorts a bank’s Pillar
1 capital charge under the Standardised Approach, supervisors will consider appropriate
supervisory action under Pillar 2.
129

[Document: document.pdf, Page 132]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 2: Can the Central Bank detail or provide examples of the extraordinary or
irregular items under the definition of Gross income. Does this cover the bank selling off
certain part of its business?
An extraordinary or irregular item consists of gains or losses included on a bank's P&L statement
(usually reported separately as these items are not predictors of future performance) from events
that are unusual and infrequent in nature. Such items are the result of unforeseen and atypical
events that are outside the normal course of the core banking business (i.e. outside the types of
income described in paragraph 13 of the Operational Risk section of Standards re Capital
Adequacy in the UAE). For example, income derived from non-core banking business; income
from discontinued operations; extraordinary income (e.g. from the sale of certain part a banking
business).
B. Standardised Approach
Question 3: Define business Segments under 'Retail Brokerage' and 'Asset Management'?
• Retail Brokerage - Examples of activities:
Execution and full service, such as:
i. Reception and transmission of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments
ii. Execution of orders on behalf of clients
• Asset Management- Examples of activities:
i. Portfolio management
ii. Managing of Investments funds, including: pooled funds, segregated funds, retail
funds, institutional funds, closed funds, open funds, private equity funds
Question 4: What is the objective mapping criteria for mapping ancillary business function
that supports more than one business line?
Such objective mapping criteria depends on the business and ancillary business mix of a bank.
These criteria are not preset by the Central Bank. A bank should establish internally such criteria,
reflecting its internal organisation, and these should be subject to independent review as per point
(ix) of paragraph 12 of the Operational Risk section of Standards re Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
The allocation can be done pro-rata based on the chosen criteria.
Examples of objective criteria include:
1. number of full-time equivalent members of staff,
2. time sheet man-hours,
3. number of clients or transactions originated from each business line,
4. volume of business originated from each business line.
Question 5: Business Segments/ functions that are to be mapped to 'Payment and
Settlement' can be clearly articulated, as currently Level 2 defines the business segment
as 'External Clients'
There is no fixed definition of external clients but all clients that the bank deals with externally with
regards to Payment and Settlements need to be incorporated in this business line.
130

[Document: document.pdf, Page 133]
CBUAE Classification: Public
C. Alternative Standardised Approach
Question 6: What exposure indicator is used in the ASA approach?
In the ASA, gross income is replaced by the credit volume in terms of outstanding loans and
advances (L&A) multiplied by a factor m (fixed at 0.035), as the exposure indicator for retail and
commercial banking business lines. The loans and advances are non-risk weighted and gross of
provisions.
Question 7: Why is the volume-based indicator alternative provided?
This volume-based indicator is provided to avoid large differences in the operational risk
requirement caused by differences in income margins across banks and jurisdictions in these
business lines. Gross income is not an appropriate exposure indicator of the extent of operational
risk in retail and commercial lending.
Question 8: Can a bank choose to adopt ASA on its own?
No, the Central Bank must be satisfied that the alternative approach provides an improved basis
for calculating the capital charge for operational risk in the bank. Reverting to the SA after adopting
ASA is only possible with the approval of the Central Bank.
Question 9: What comprises Commercial Loans and Advances?
Under the ASA, commercial loans and advances will include outstanding amounts (non-risk
weighted and gross of provisions) averaged over the past three years, from the following credit
portfolios:
Commercial loans included for ASA Definitions
Corporates Loans to a corporation, partnership or
proprietorship firm
Sovereigns Loans to sovereigns and their central banks,
certain public sector enterprises and
multilateral development banks
Banks Loans to other banks and regulated
securities firms
Specialised lending Loans for project finance, object finance,
commodities finance, income producing real
estate and commercial real estate
Small and medium enterprises treated as Loans to small and medium enterprises
corporates belonging to a group with annual gross
turnover that exceeds AED 250 million
Purchased corporate receivables Bank finance against amounts due to
corporates from third parties for goods
and/or services provided by them.
Book value of securities held in the banking The value at which securities have been
book purchased rather than their market value.
Securities that are held in the banking book
are intended to be held until maturity. There
is no intent of trading in these securities.
Question 10: What comprises Retail Loans?
For the purpose of the ASA, retail loans will include total outstanding amounts (non-risk weighted
131

[Document: document.pdf, Page 134]
CBUAE Classification: Public
and gross of provisions) averaged over the past three years in the following credit portfolios:
Retail loans included for ASA Definitions
Retail Exposures to individuals, residential
mortgage loans etc.
SMEs treated as retail Loans extended to small and medium
businesses and managed as retail
exposures by the bank.
Purchased retail receivables Bank finance against amounts due to
bank’s retail clients from third parties for
goods and/or services provided by them
Question 11: What is the threshold to decide a large diversified bank in terms of assets
book size/composition or any other indicators?
Currently, there is no such threshold. The Central Bank will perform an assessment for each bank
applying to qualify for ASA. The qualifying criteria provided in paragraph 28 of the Operational
Risk section of Standards re Capital Adequacy in the UAE, especially the first one (90% income
from retail/commercial banking) are stringent. The Central Bank will review whether the bank
meets the 90% standard to determine whether an additional size cut-off is appropriate.
Question 12: Retail or commercial banking activities shall account for at least 90% of its
income. Please clarify whether this needs to be seen in the current year or an average of
all the 3 years based on which the Operational Risk capital is being computed
Testing the 90% rule across a period of three consecutive years will be more appropriate.
Question 13: "The bank's operational risk management processes and assessment system
shall be subject to validation and regular independent review". Can we get clarification on
the difference between the validation and the review, and what are the scope and
responsible party for each?
Validation of models and tables must be performed by the internal auditor or by the external
auditor.
Question 14: In terms of the "regular reporting", is an official ORM meeting required? For
example, Operational Risk Business/ Country / Group Committee meetings?
It is up to the bank how it conveys the regular reports to the senior management and the board of
directors, but the evidence of these reports were submitted needs to be documented for example
senior management signatures on the reports.
Question 15: Is operational risk capital charge revision a quarterly activity going forward
or it remains as a yearly activity at the end of the year?
Will it be more adequate if we use current years’ gross income to compute operational risk
rather last year's audited numbers only.
If the quarterly income is audited, the bank should use the quarterly data, which means the same
quarter in the previous two years needs to be taken into consideration or else, the yearly audited
data needs to be incorporated
The standards state only audited numbers need to be used and as such, if the current year’s
income is audited, it can be used as part of the computation
Question 16: Elaboration of definition and scope of Operational Risk should be helpful.
For example, whether Operational Risk includes other risk types such as Fraud Risk,
132

[Document: document.pdf, Page 135]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Business Continuity Risk etc.
The definition and scope of Operational risk is sufficiently elaborated in the Operational Risk
Standard of the Capital Adequacy Standards of Banks in the UAE and the Operational Risk
Guidance. If operational risks were not sufficiently covered under Pillar I, then the uncovered
risk should be part of the Pillar 2 ICAAP calculation.
Question 17: As per the definition of gross income, "income derived from insurance" is to
be excluded from the income while computing Operational RWA.
We would request clarification if this also refers to bancassurance i.e. Bank's commission
income earned on insurance products that are sold on behalf of insurance companies."
Any income which the bank earns out of the bancassurace should be treated as income derived
from insurance.
133