
VM in the form of cash collateral received. Furthermore, an “Independent Amount” (IA) of AED 10
million was agreed in favour of the bank, and none in favour of its counterparty. This leads to a
64

[Document: document.pdf, Page 67]
CBUAE Classification: Public
credit support amount of AED 90 million (80 million plus 10 million), which is assumed to have
been fully received as of the reporting date. There is a small “Minimum Transfer Amount” (MTA)
of AED1 million, and a “Threshold” (TH) of zero.
In this example, the V-C term in the replacement cost (RC) formula is zero, since the value of the
trades is more than offset by collateral received; AED80 million – AED90 million = -10 million. The
term (TH + MTA - NICA) is -9 million (0 TH + 1 million MTA - 10 million of NICA held). Using the
replacing cost formula:
RC = MAX {(V-C), (TH+MTA-NICA), 0}
= MAX{(80-90),(0+1-10),0}
= MAX{-10,-9,0} = 0
Because both V-C and TH+MTA-NICA are negative, the replacement cost is zero. This occurs
because of the large amount of collateral posted by the bank’s counterparty.
B. Illustration 2: Initial Margin
A bank, in its capacity as clearing member of a CCP, has posted VM to the CCP in an amount
equal to the value of the trades it has with the CCP. The bank has posted AED10 million in cash
as initial margin, and the initial margin is held in such a manner as to be bankruptcy-remote from
the CCP. Assume that the value of trades with the CCP are -50 million, and the bank has posted
AED50 million in VM to the CCP. Also assume that MTA and TH are both zero under the terms
of clearing at the CCP.
In this case, the V-C term is zero, since the already posted VM offsets the negative value of V.
The TH+MTA-NICA term is also zero, since MTA and TH both equal zero, and the initial margin
held by the CCP is bankruptcy remote and thus does not affect NICA. Thus:
RC = MAX {(V-C), (TH+MTA-NICA), 0}
= MAX{(-50-(-50)), (0+0-0), 0}
= MAX{0,0,0} = 0
Therefore, the replacement cost RC is zero.
C. Illustration 3: Initial Margin Not Bankruptcy Remote
Consider the same case as in Illustration 2, except that the initial margin posted to the CCP is not
bankruptcy remote. Since this now counts as part of the collateral C, the value of V-C is AED10
million. The value of the TH+MTA-NICA term is AED10 million due to the negative NICA of -10
million. In this case:
RC = MAX {(V-C), (TH+MTA-NICA), 0}
= MAX{(-50-(-50)-(-10)), (0+0-(-10)), 0}
= MAX{10,10,0} = 10
65

[Document: document.pdf, Page 68]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The RC is now AED10 million, representing the initial margin posted to the CCP that would be
lost if the CCP were to default.
D. Illustration 4: Maintenance Margin Agreement
Some margin agreements specify that a counterparty must maintain a level of collateral that is a
fixed percentage of the mark-to-market (MtM) of the transactions in the netting set. For this type
of margining agreement, the Independent Collateral Amount (ICA) is the percentage of MtM that
the counterparty must maintain above the net MtM of the transactions covered by the margin
agreement. For example, suppose the agreement states that a counterparty must maintain a
collateral balance of at least 140% of the MtM of its transactions. Further suppose for purposes
of this illustration that there is no TH and no MTA, and that the MTM of the derivative transactions
is 50. The counterparty posts 80 in cash collateral. ICA in this case is the amount that the
counterparty is required to post above the MTM (140%x50 – 50 = 20). Since MtM minus the
collateral is negative (50-80 = -30), and MTA+TH-NICA also is negative (0+0-20 = -20), the
replacement cost RC is zero. In terms of the replacement cost formula:
RC = MAX {(V-C), (TH+MTA-NICA), 0}
= MAX{(50-80), (0+0-20), 0}
= MAX{-30,-20,0} = 0
66

[Document: document.pdf, Page 69]
CBUAE Classification: Public
V. Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)
I. Introduction
A credit valuation adjustment (CVA) is an adjustment to the fair value of a derivative
instrument to account for counterparty credit risk. CVA is commonly viewed as the cost of
counterparty credit risk. For any given position with a counterparty, this cost depends on the
market’s perception of the riskiness of the counterparty, as reflected for example in counterparty
credit spreads, as well as on the market value of the exposure, which typically depends on
underlying market factors.
During the financial crisis, banks suffered significant losses due to counterparty risk
exposure on over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Various analyses have concluded that the
majority of these losses came not from counterparty defaults but from fair value adjustments on
derivatives. The value of outstanding derivative assets was written down as it became apparent
that counterparties had become less likely to meet their obligations. These types of credit-related
losses, reflected in changes in CVA, are now widely recognized as a source of risk for banks
involved in derivatives activity.
Under the Basel II market risk framework, firms were required to hold capital against the
variability in the market value of their derivatives in the trading book, but there was no requirement
to capitalize against variability in CVA. Counterparty credit risk capital under Basel II was based
on the credit risk framework, and designed to provide protection against default and migration risk
rather than the potential losses that can arise through variations in CVA.
To address this gap in the prudential capital framework, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (BCBS) introduced the CVA capital charge as part of Basel III in December 2010.
The purpose of the Basel III CVA capital charge is to ensure that bank capital provides adequate
protection against the risks of future changes in CVA.
In line with the requirements of Basel III, UAE banks are required to calculate risk-weighted
assets (RWA) for CVA risk under one of two approaches. Banks must use either:
 A standardised approach, described in the Standards and closely based on the
standardised approach to CVA risk capital developed by the BCBS; or
 A simple alternative approach, under which a bank with an aggregate notional
amount of non-centrally cleared derivatives less than or equal to 400 billion AED
may calculate RWA for CVA by setting it equal to the bank’s counterparty credit
risk (CCR) RWA.
The Central Bank is fully aware of the BCBS view that CVA risk cannot be modelled by
banks in a robust and prudent manner at this time. Accordingly, the Central Bank has determined
that CVA approaches that rely on banks’ internal CVA models, or that use inputs derived from
those models, are not appropriate for use in regulatory capital calculations by UAE banks.
67

[Document: document.pdf, Page 70]
CBUAE Classification: Public
II. Clarifications
A. Scope
The CVA standards covers all of a bank’s non-centrally cleared derivative exposures. In
the context of the CVA standards, derivatives are instruments whose value is based upon the
price or value associated with an underlying reference entity. In general, derivatives exhibit the
following abstract characteristics:
 The transactions generate a current exposure or market value.
 The transactions have an associated random future market value based on market
variables.
 The transactions have contractual terms that provide for an exchange of payments
or an exchange of a financial instrument (including commodities) against payment.
 The transactions are undertaken with an identified counterparty.
Other common characteristics of derivative transactions may include the following:
 Collateral may be used to mitigate risk exposure, and may be inherent in the nature
of some transactions.
 Netting may be used to mitigate risk or to simplify operational aspects of the
transaction.
 Positions are frequently valued (most commonly on a daily basis), with the value
dependent on market variables or their changes.
 Margin payments may be employed, with margin held in various forms, and with
re-margining agreements that allow for the adjustment of margin either daily or at
some other established frequency.
In addition, the Central Bank has used national discretion to include securities financing
transactions (SFTs) – transactions such as repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase
agreements, security lending and borrowing, and margin lending transactions – within the scope
of the CVA calculation. However, as the Standards note, if the Central Bank determines that SFT
exposures at any individual bank are not a material source of CVA risk, the Central Bank may
direct the bank to exclude SFTs from CVA capital calculations.
Consistent with the BCBS framework, all derivative transactions for which a central
counterparty is the direct counterparty are excluded from the CVA capital calculation. Banks must
calculate RWA for those centrally cleared transactions as specified in the Central Bank’s CCR
Standards.
B. CVA Overview
The Central Bank’s approach to minimum required capital for CVA risk is based closely on the
standardised approach to CVA risk capital described in Basel III: A global regulatory framework
for more resilient banks and banking systems (BCBS 189, December 2010, rev June 2011). A
few elements also draw on clarifications and other information provided in BCBS publications
responding to Frequently Asked Questions, or clarifications contained in Basel III: Finalising
post-crisis reforms published by the BCBS in December 2017.
68