
Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European
Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank,
the International Finance Facility for Immunisation and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
The list of MDBs is by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and can be found
on the website www.bis.org. All banks are required to refer to and comply with the BCBS list.
Whilst the BCBS evaluates the eligibility of the entities on a case-by-case basis, the Central Bank
has no role in the assessment and decision of entities being eligible for 0% risk weight.
D. Claims on Banks
The types of claims that fall under this asset class are claims not limited to those due from
banks, nostro accounts, certificates of deposit (CD) issued by banks, and repurchase agreements
(repos). A risk weight of 50% (long term) and 20% (short term) is applied to claims on unrated
banks. However, this treatment is subject to the provision that no claim on an unrated bank may
receive a risk weight lower than that applied to claims on its sovereign of incorporation.
Exposure to intra-group of the bank have to be risk weighted according to the external
rating of the counterparty entity (e.g. exposures to the head office shall receive the risk weight
according to the rating of the head office).
E. Claims on Securities Firms
In addition to providing loans to other banks in the interbank market, banks provide loans to
securities firms. The securities firms use these loans to fund the purchase of securities. Exposures
to these securities firms shall be treated as claims on banks if these firms are subject to prudential
standards and a level of supervision that is equivalent to those applicable to banks. Such
supervision must include at least both capital and liquidity requirements. Exposures to all other
securities firms that are not treated as claims on banks will be treated as exposures to corporates.
F. Claims on Corporates
For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, exposures to corporates include, but
are not limited to, exposures (loans, bonds, receivables, etc.) to incorporated entities,
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, trusts, funds and other entities with similar
characteristics, except those which qualify for one of the other exposure classes. The corporate
exposure class does not include exposures to individuals.
Claims on corporates may be risk- weighted based on the entity’s external credit rating
assessment. The Central Bank may increase the standard risk weight for unrated claims where it
judges that a higher risk weight is warranted by the overall default experience. As part of the
supervisory review process, the Central Bank may also consider whether the credit quality of
corporate claims held by banks warrants a risk weight higher than 100%.
G. Claims included in the Regulatory Retail Portfolios
To qualify for a 75% risk weight in the regulatory retail portfolio, claims must meet the four
27

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 27]
CBUAE Classification: Public
criteria stated in the Credit Risk Standard (orientation criterion, product criterion, granularity
criterion and value criterion). All other retail claims should be risk weighted at 100%. For
granularity criterion and value criterion, the aggregated exposure means gross amount (i.e. not
taking any credit risk mitigation into account) of all forms of retail exposures, excluding residential
real estate exposures. In case of off-balance sheet items, the gross amount will be calculated
after applying credit conversion factors. In addition, “to one counterparty” means one or several
entities that may be considered as a single beneficiary (e.g. in the case of a small business that
is affiliated to another small business, the limit would apply to the bank’s aggregated exposure on
both businesses).
Claims secured by residential property and past due retail loans are to be excluded from
the overall regulatory retail portfolio for risk weighting purposes. These are addressed separately
in the asset classes for residential property or commercial real estate.
H. Claims Secured by Residential Property
Claims secured by residential property are defined as loans secured by residential
property that is either self-occupied or rented out. The property must be fully mortgaged in favor
of the bank.
The Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is the outstanding loan exposure divided by the value of the
property. The value of the property will be maintained at the value at origination unless the Central
Bank requires banks to revise the property value downward. The value must be adjusted if an
extraordinary, idiosyncratic event occurs resulting in a permanent reduction of the property value.
Such adjustment must be notified to the Central Bank. If the value has been adjusted downwards,
a subsequent upwards adjustment can be made but not to a higher value than the value at
origination.
A 35% risk weighting shall apply to eligible residential claims if the LTV ratio is less than
85% and the exposure is less than AED 10 million. When the loan amount exceeds AED 10 million
and the LTV is below 85%, the loan amount up to AED 10 million will receive 35% risk weight and
the remaining amount above AED 10 million receives 100% risk weight.
A risk weight of 75% may be applied by banks that do not hold information regarding
LTVs for individual exposures
For residential exposures that meet the criteria for regulatory retail claims and have an
LTV greater than 85%, the 75% risk weight must be applied to the whole loan, i.e. the loan should
not be split.
The risk-weights in this asset class may be applied to a limit of four individual properties
made to a single individual customer that are owner- occupied or rented out by a retail borrower.
Any additional exposure to a customer with loans for four individual properties shall be classified
as a claim on a commercial property and risk weighted with 100%.
I. Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate is defined as a loan granted by a bank to a customer specifically
for the purpose of buying or constructing commercial property including residential towers and
mixed use towers.
J. Past Due Loans
Risk weights of past due loans depend on the degree of provision coverage on the claim.
For any past due loan, 100% Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) should be applied for the off-
28

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 28]
CBUAE Classification: Public
balance sheet component to calculate the credit risk-weighted assets. Any exposure that is past
due for more than 90 days should be reported under this asset class, net of specific provisions
(including partial write-offs). This differs from the IFRS 9 classification as the past due asset
includes any loans more than 90 days past due.
K. Higher-risk categories
Higher risk weights may be applied to assets that reflect higher risks. A bank may decide
to apply a risk weight of 150% or higher.
L. Other Assets
Assets in this class include any other form of exposure that does not fit into the specific
exposure classes. The standard risk weight for all other assets will be 100%, with the exception
of the following exposures:
a) 0% risk weight applied to:
i. cash owned and held at the bank or in transit;
ii. Gold bullion held at the bank or held in another bank on an allocated basis, to the extent
the gold bullion assets are backed by gold bullion liabilities;
iii. All the deductions from capital according tothe Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital
Adequacy in the UAE, for reconciliation between the regulatory return and the
audited/reviewed financial statement.
b) 20% risk weight:
i. Cash items in the process of collection.
c) 100% risk weight:
i. Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to which a credit risk
standardised approach applies, unless they are deducted from regulatory capital
according to section 3.9 of Tier capital supply of Standards Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
(listed entity)
ii. Investments in commercial entities below the materiality thresholds according to section 5
of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (listed);
iii. Premises, plant and equipment and other fixed assets,
iv. Prepaid expenses such as property taxes and utilities,
v. All other assets
d) 150% risk weight:
i. The amount of investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to
which a credit risk standardised approach applies unless they are deducted from
regulatory capital deduction according to section 3.9 of Tier capital supply of Standards
of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (unlisted entity);
ii. Investments in commercial entities below the materiality thresholds according to section
5 of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (unlisted entity).
e) 250% risk weight:
29

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 29]
CBUAE Classification: Public
i. Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to which a credit risk
standardised approach, applies unless they are deducted from regulatory capital
according to the threshold deduction described in section 3.10 of Tier capital supply of
Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
ii. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) which depend on future profitability and arise from temporary
differences unless they are not deducted under threshold deductions described in section
4 of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
f) 1250% risk weight:
i. Investments in commercial entities in excess of the materiality thresholds must be risk-
weighted at 1/ (Minimum capital requirement) (i.e. 1250%).
M. Off-Balance Sheet Items: Credit Conversion Factors
Under the standardised approach, off-balance sheet items are converted into credit
exposure equivalents with Credit Conversion Factors (CCFs). CCFs approximate the potential
amount of the off-balance sheet facility that would have been drawn down by the client by the
time of its default. The credit equivalent amount is treated in a manner similar to an on-balance
sheet instrument and is assigned the risk weight appropriate to the counterparty. The categories
of off-balance sheet and its appropriate CCFs are outlined in the standard.
Calculating credit equivalent amounts for off-balance sheet item:
(Principal amount – provision amount) * CCF = Credit equivalent amount.
Bank guarantees
There are two types of bank guarantees viz. financial guarantees (direct credit substitutes);
and performance guarantees (transaction-related contingent items).
Financial guarantees essentially carry the same credit risk as a direct extension of credit
i.e. the risk of loss is directly linked to the creditworthiness of the counterparty against whom a
potential claim is acquired, and therefore attracts a CCF of 100%.
Performance guarantees are essentially transaction-related contingencies that involve an
irrevocable undertaking to pay a third party in the event the counterparty fails to fulfil or perform
a contractual non-financial obligation. In such transactions, the risk of loss depends on the event
which need not necessarily be related to the creditworthiness of the counterparty involved.
Performance guarantees attract a CCF of 50%.
Commitments
The credit conversion factor applied to a commitment is dependent on its maturity. Banks
should use original maturity to report these instruments.
Longer maturity commitments are considered to be of higher risk because there is a longer
period between credit reviews and less opportunity to withdraw the commitment if the credit quality
of the customer deteriorates. Commitments with an original maturity up to one year and
commitments with an original maturity over one year will receive a CCF of 20% and 50%,
respectively.
However, any commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank
without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a
borrower’s creditworthiness, will receive a 0% CCF. This requires that banks conduct formal
reviews of the facilities regularly and this provides the opportunity to take note of any perceived
30

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 30]
CBUAE Classification: Public
deterioration in credit quality and thereby cancellability by the bank.
For exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk, the exposure amount to be used
in the determination of RWA is to be calculated according to the standardised approach for
Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR).
N. Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM)
Only eligible collateral, guarantees, credit derivatives, and netting under legally
enforceable bilateral agreements (such as ISDAs) are eligible for CRM purposes. For example, a
commitment to provide collateral or a guarantee is not recognised as an eligible CRM technique
for capital adequacy purposes until the commitment to do so is actually fulfilled.
No additional CRM will be recognised for capital adequacy purposes on exposures where
the risk weight is mapped from a rating specificto a debt security where that rating already reflects
CRM. For example, if the rating has already taken into account a guarantee pledged by the parent
or sovereign entity, then the guarantee shall not be considered again for credit risk mitigation
purposes.
Banks should ensure that all minimum legal and the operational requirements set out in
the Standard are fulfilled.
CRM treatment by substitution of risk weights
The method ofsubstitution of risk weight is applicable for the recognition of the guarantees
and credit derivatives as CRM techniques under both the simple approach and the comprehensive
approach. Under this method, an exposure is divided into two portions: the portion covered by credit
protection and the remaining uncovered portion.
For guarantees and credit derivatives, the value of credit protection to be recorded is the
nominal value. However, where the credit protection is denominated in a currency different from
that of the underlying obligation, the covered portion should be reduced by a standard supervisory
haircut defined in the Credit Risk Standard for the currency mismatch.
For eligible collateral, the value of credit protection to be recorded is its market value,
subject to a minimum revaluation frequency of 6 months for performing assets, and 3 months for
past due assets (if this is not achieved then no value can be recognised). Where the collateral
includes cash deposits, certificates of deposit, cash funded credit-linked notes, or other
comparable instruments, which are held at a third-party bank in a non-custodial arrangement and
unconditionally and irrevocably pledged or assigned to the bank, the collateral will be allocated
the same risk weight as that of the third party bank.
Simple Approach
Under simple approach, the eligible collateral must be pledged for at least the life of the
exposure, i.e. maturity mismatch is not allowed.
Where a bank has collateral in the form of shares and uses the simple approach, a 100%
risk weight is applied for listed shares and 150% risk weight for unlisted shares.
Comprehensive Approach
Under the comprehensive approach, the collateral adjusted value is deducted from the
risk exposure (before assigning the risk weight). Standard supervisory haircuts as defined in the
31