[Document: document.pdf, Page 31]
CBUAE Classification: Public
balance sheet component to calculate the credit risk-weighted assets. Any exposure that is past
due for more than 90 days should be reported under this asset class, net of specific provisions
(including partial write-offs). This differs from the IFRS 9 classification as the past due asset
includes any loans more than 90 days past due.
K. Higher-risk categories
Higher risk weights may be applied to assets that reflect higher risks. A bank may decide
to apply a risk weight of 150% or higher.
L. Other Assets
Assets in this class include any other form of exposure that does not fit into the specific
exposure classes. The standard risk weight for all other assets will be 100%, with the exception
of the following exposures:
a) 0% risk weight applied to:
i. cash owned and held at the bank or in transit;
ii. Gold bullion held at the bank or held in another bank on an allocated basis, to the extent
the gold bullion assets are backed by gold bullion liabilities;
iii. All the deductions from capital according to the Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital
Adequacy in the UAE, for reconciliation between the regulatory return and the
audited/reviewed financial statement.
b) 20% risk weight:
i. Cash items in the process of collection.
c) 100% risk weight:
i. Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to which a credit risk
standardised approach applies, unless they are deducted from regulatory capital
according to section 3.9 of Tier capital supply of Standards Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
(listed entity)
ii. Investments in commercial entities below the materiality thresholds according to section 5
of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (listed);
iii. Premises, plant and equipment and other fixed assets,
iv. Prepaid expenses such as property taxes and utilities,
v. All other assets
d) 150% risk weight:
i. The amount of investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to
which a credit risk standardised approach applies unless they are deducted from
regulatory capital deduction according to section 3.9 of Tier capital supply of Standards
of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (unlisted entity);
ii. Investments in commercial entities below the materiality thresholds according to section
5 of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE (unlisted entity).
e) 250% risk weight:
29

[Document: document.pdf, Page 32]
CBUAE Classification: Public
i. Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities to which a credit risk
standardised approach, applies unless they are deducted from regulatory capital
according to the threshold deduction described in section 3.10 of Tier capital supply of
Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
ii. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) which depend on future profitability and arise from temporary
differences unless they are not deducted under threshold deductions described in section
4 of Tier capital supply of Standards of Capital Adequacy in the UAE.
f) 1250% risk weight:
i. Investments in commercial entities in excess of the materiality thresholds must be risk-
weighted at 1/ (Minimum capital requirement) (i.e. 1250%).
M. Off-Balance Sheet Items: Credit Conversion Factors
Under the standardised approach, off-balance sheet items are converted into credit
exposure equivalents with Credit Conversion Factors (CCFs). CCFs approximate the potential
amount of the off-balance sheet facility that would have been drawn down by the client by the
time of its default. The credit equivalent amount is treated in a manner similar to an on-balance
sheet instrument and is assigned the risk weight appropriate to the counterparty. The categories
of off-balance sheet and its appropriate CCFs are outlined in the standard.
Calculating credit equivalent amounts for off-balance sheet item:
(Principal amount – provision amount) * CCF = Credit equivalent amount.
Bank guarantees
There are two types of bank guarantees viz. financial guarantees (direct credit substitutes);
and performance guarantees (transaction-related contingent items).
Financial guarantees essentially carry the same credit risk as a direct extension of credit
i.e. the risk of loss is directly linked to the creditworthiness of the counterparty against whom a
potential claim is acquired, and therefore attracts a CCF of 100%.
Performance guarantees are essentially transaction-related contingencies that involve an
irrevocable undertaking to pay a third party in the event the counterparty fails to fulfil or perform
a contractual non-financial obligation. In such transactions, the risk of loss depends on the event
which need not necessarily be related to the creditworthiness of the counterparty involved.
Performance guarantees attract a CCF of 50%.
Commitments
The credit conversion factor applied to a commitment is dependent on its maturity. Banks
should use original maturity to report these instruments.
Longer maturity commitments are considered to be of higher risk because there is a longer
period between credit reviews and less opportunity to withdraw the commitment if the credit quality
of the customer deteriorates. Commitments with an original maturity up to one year and
commitments with an original maturity over one year will receive a CCF of 20% and 50%,
respectively.
However, any commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank
without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a
borrower’s creditworthiness, will receive a 0% CCF. This requires that banks conduct formal
reviews of the facilities regularly and this provides the opportunity to take note of any perceived
30

[Document: document.pdf, Page 33]
CBUAE Classification: Public
deterioration in credit quality and thereby cancellability by the bank.
For exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk, the exposure amount to be used
in the determination of RWA is to be calculated according to the standardised approach for
Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR).
N. Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM)
Only eligible collateral, guarantees, credit derivatives, and netting under legally
enforceable bilateral agreements (such as ISDAs) are eligible for CRM purposes. For example, a
commitment to provide collateral or a guarantee is not recognised as an eligible CRM technique
for capital adequacy purposes until the commitment to do so is actually fulfilled.
No additional CRM will be recognised for capital adequacy purposes on exposures where
the risk weight is mapped from a rating specific to a debt security where that rating already reflects
CRM. For example, if the rating has already taken into account a guarantee pledged by the parent
or sovereign entity, then the guarantee shall not be considered again for credit risk mitigation
purposes.
Banks should ensure that all minimum legal and the operational requirements set out in
the Standard are fulfilled.
CRM treatment by substitution of risk weights
The method of substitution of risk weight is applicable for the recognition of the guarantees
and credit derivatives as CRM techniques under both the simple approach and the comprehensive
approach. Under this method, an exposure is divided into two portions: the portion covered by credit
protection and the remaining uncovered portion.
For guarantees and credit derivatives, the value of credit protection to be recorded is the
nominal value. However, where the credit protection is denominated in a currency different from
that of the underlying obligation, the covered portion should be reduced by a standard supervisory
haircut defined in the Credit Risk Standard for the currency mismatch.
For eligible collateral, the value of credit protection to be recorded is its market value,
subject to a minimum revaluation frequency of 6 months for performing assets, and 3 months for
past due assets (if this is not achieved then no value can be recognised). Where the collateral
includes cash deposits, certificates of deposit, cash funded credit-linked notes, or other
comparable instruments, which are held at a third-party bank in a non-custodial arrangement and
unconditionally and irrevocably pledged or assigned to the bank, the collateral will be allocated
the same risk weight as that of the third party bank.
Simple Approach
Under simple approach, the eligible collateral must be pledged for at least the life of the
exposure, i.e. maturity mismatch is not allowed.
Where a bank has collateral in the form of shares and uses the simple approach, a 100%
risk weight is applied for listed shares and 150% risk weight for unlisted shares.
Comprehensive Approach
Under the comprehensive approach, the collateral adjusted value is deducted from the
risk exposure (before assigning the risk weight). Standard supervisory haircuts as defined in the
31

[Document: document.pdf, Page 34]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Credit Risk Standard are applied to the collateral because collateral is subject to risk, which could
reduce the realisation value of the collateral when liquidated.
If the exposure and collateral are held in different currencies, the bank must adjust
downwards the volatility- adjusted collateral amount to take into account possible future
fluctuations in exchange rates.
There is no distinction for applying supervisory haircuts between main index equities and
equities listed at a recognised exchange. A 25% haircut applies to all equities.
Capital Add-on under Pillar 2
While the use of CRM techniques reduces or transfers credit risk, it gives rise to other
risks that need to be adequately controlled and managed. Banks should take all appropriate steps
to ensure the effectiveness of the CRM and to address related risks. Where these risks are not
adequately controlled, the Central Bank may impose additional capital charges or take other
supervisory actions as outlined in Pillar 2 Standard.
III. Shari’ah Implementation
Banks that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of
Shari’ah laws and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Credit Risk Standard,
shall, for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the relevant risk
weighted asset in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner compliant with the
Shari’ah laws.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
IV. Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
During the industry consultation the Central Bank received a number of questions related to
the Credit Risk Standard and Guidance. To ensure consistent implementation of the Credit
Risk Standard in the UAE, the main questions are addressed hereunder.
Claims on Sovereigns
Question 1: What does the 7-year transition for USD exposure to the Federal Government
and Emirates Government mean for banks?
During the 7-year transition period, banks are required to have a forward looking plan on USD
exposures to Federal and Emirate governments. Banks shall monitor and manage the impact of
the change in risk weights of exposures in USD on the bank’s capital position. Exposures in USD
as well as the banks’ capital plans will be monitored by the Central Bank.
Question 2: What is the appropriate risk weight for exposures to other GCC sovereigns?
A 0% risk weight is applied to GCC Sovereign exposures denominated and funded in the domestic
currency of their country. However, exposures in non-domestic currencies (including USD) shall
be risk weighted according to the rating of sovereigns.
Question 3: Does the Central Bank allow banks to apply unsolicited ratings in the same
32

[Document: document.pdf, Page 35]
CBUAE Classification: Public
way as solicited ratings?
Bank should use ratings determined by an eligible External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAIs).
Only solicited ratings are allowed to be used. The Central Bank only allows unsolicited ratings
from an eligible ECAI for the UAE federal government. All other exposures shall be risk weighted
using solicited ratings.
Claims on Non-Commercial Public Sector Enterprises
Question 4: Can the bank include claims on a GCC PSE denominated in their local currency
under claims of Non-Commercial PSEs?
No, the preferential risk weights for Non-Commercial PSEs are only granted for UAE entities.
Question 5: Do all the seven criteria stated in the credit risk guidance have to be met or
any of the criterion can be met to classify an entity as non-commercial PSE? In addition,
does the bank just follow the so-called GRE list or shall the bank apply the criteria to
classify entities as non-commercial PSE?
To classify entities as Non-commercial PSE, the Central Bank will consider in its approval process
all seven criteria and in principle all seven criteria must be satisfied. A bank may approach the
Central Bank, if the bank thinks that certain entities satisfy the criteria for a Non-commercial PSE
that can be added to the GRE list. If banks have information that would lead to changes to of the
GRE List, banks should inform the Central Bank accordingly.
Question 6: The guidance requires that the bank’s internal audit/ compliance departments
perform regular reviews to ensure the PSE and GRE classification complies with the
Central Bank's GRE list. What is the expected frequency of such a review?
The frequency of internal audit/compliance should be commensurate with the bank's size, the
nature and risks of bank’s operations and the complexity of the bank.
Claims on Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs)
Question 7: Does an MDB need to satisfy all of the stated criteria or any one of the criteria
to apply a 0% risk-weight?
Exposures to MDBs may receive a risk weight of 0% if they fulfill all five criteria. However, the
Central Bank does not decide whether an MDB satisfies the criteria or not. The Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision (BCBS) evaluates each MDB’s eligibility for inclusion in the list of 0% RW
on a case-by-case basis.
Claims on Banks
Question 8: For claims on an unrated bank, can the bank apply the preferential rating as