[Document: PI.pdf, Page 90 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
distinct tranches is the key feature of securitisation; similar structures that merely “pass through”
the cash flows to the claims without modification are not considered securitisations.
For securitisation exposures, payments to the investors depend upon the performance of
the specified underlying exposures, as opposed to being derived from an obligation of the entity
originating those exposures. The stratified/tranched structures that characterize securitisations
differ from ordinary senior/subordinated debt instruments in that junior securitisation tranches can
absorb losses without interrupting contractual payments to more senior tranches, whereas
subordination in a senior/subordinated debt structure is a matter of priority of rights to the
proceeds of a liquidation.
In some cases, transactions that have some of the features of securitisations should not
be treated as such for capital purposes. For example, transactions involving cash flows from real
estate (e.g., in the form of rents) may be considered specialized lending exposures. Banks should
consult with Central Bank when there is uncertainty about whether a given transaction should be
considered a securitisation.
2. Senior Securitisation exposures
A securitisation exposure is considered a senior exposure if it is effectively backed or
secured by a first claim on the entire amount of the assets in the underlying securitised pool.
While this generally includes only the most senior position within a securitisation tranche,
in some instances there may be other claims that, in a technical sense, may be more senior in
the waterfall (e.g., a swap claim) but may be disregarded for the purpose of determining which
positions are treated as senior.
If a senior tranche is retranched or partially hedged (i.e., not on a pro rata basis), only the
new senior part would be treated as senior for capital purposes.
In some cases, several senior tranches of different maturities may share pro rata in loss
allocation. In that case, the seniority of these tranches is unaffected – they all are considered to
be senior – since they all benefit from the same level of credit enhancement. (Note that in this
case, the material effects of differing tranche maturities are captured by maturity adjustments to
the risk weights assigned to the securitisation exposures, per the Standards.)
In a traditional securitisation where all tranches above the first-loss piece are rated, the
most highly rated position should be treated as a senior tranche. When there are several tranches
that share the same rating, only the most senior tranche in the cash flow waterfall should be
treated as senior (unless the only difference among them is the effective maturity). In addition,
when the different ratings of several senior tranches only result from a difference in maturity, all
of these tranches should be treated as senior.
In a typical synthetic securitisation, an unrated tranche can be treated as a senior tranche
provided that all of the conditions for inferring a rating from a lower tranche that meets the
definition of a senior tranche are fulfilled.
Usually, a liquidity facility supporting an ABCP program would not be the most senior
position within the program; instead, the commercial paper issued by the program, which benefits
from the liquidity support, typically would be the most senior position. However, when a liquidity
facility that is sized to cover all of the outstanding commercial paper and other senior debt
supported by the pool is structured so that no cash flows from the underlying pool can be
91

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 91]
CBUAE Classification: Public
transferred to other creditors until any liquidity draws are repaid in full, the liquidity facility can be
treated as a senior exposure. Otherwise, if these conditions are not satisfied, or if for other reasons
the liquidity facility constitutes a mezzanine position in economic substance rather than a senior
position in the underlying pool, the liquidity facility should be treated as a non-senior exposure.
3. Operational requirements for the recognition of risk transference
The Standards requires that banks obtain a legal opinion to confirm true sale to
demonstrate that the transferor does not maintain effective or indirect control over the transferred
exposures and that the exposures are legally isolated from the transferor in such a way (e.g.,
through the sale of assets or through sub-participation) that the exposures are put beyond the
reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or receivership. However, that legal
opinion need not be limited to legal advice from qualified external legal counsel; it may be in the
form of written advice from in-house lawyers.
For synthetic securitisations, risk transference through instruments such as credit
derivatives may be recognized only if the instruments used to transfer credit risk do not contain
terms or conditions that limit the amount of credit risk transferred. Examples of terms or conditions
that would violate this requirement include the following:
(a) Clauses that materially limit the credit protection or credit risk transference, such as an
early amortization provision in a securitisation of revolving credit facilities that effectively
subordinates the bank’s interest, significant materiality thresholds below which credit
protection is deemed not to be triggered even if a credit event occurs, or clauses that
allow for the termination of the protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the
underlying exposures.
(b) Clauses that require the originating bank to alter the underlying exposures to improve
the pool’s average credit quality.
(c) Clauses that increase the bank’s cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in
the pool’s quality.
(d) Clauses that increase the yield payable to parties other than the originating bank, such
as investors and third-party providers of credit enhancements, in response to a
deterioration in the credit quality of the reference pool.
(e) Clauses that provide for increases in a retained first-loss position or credit enhancement
provided by the originating bank after the transaction’s inception.
4. Due diligence
The Standards requires banks to have a thorough understanding of all structural features of a
securitisation transaction that would materially affect the performance of the bank’s exposures to
the transaction. Common structural features that are particularly relevant include those related to
the payment waterfall incorporated in the structure, which is the description of the order of
payment for the securitisation, under which higher-tier tranches receive principal and interest
first, before lower-tier tranches are paid. Credit enhancements and liquidity enhancements also
are important structural features; these may take the form of cash advance facilities, letters of
credit, guarantees, or credit derivatives, among others. Effective due diligence also should
consider unusual or unique aspects of a particular securitisation structure, such as the specific
nature of the conditions that would constitute default under the structure.
92

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 92]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Treatment of Securitisation exposures
1. Risk weights for off-balance-sheet exposures
The Standards requires that banks apply a 100% CCF to any securitisation-related off-
balance-sheet exposures that are not credit risk mitigants. One example of such an off-balance-
sheet exposure that may arise with securitisations is a commitment for servicer cash advances,
under which a servicer enters into a contract to advance cash to ensure an uninterrupted flow of
payments to investors. The BCBS securitisation framework provides national discretion to permit
the undrawn portion of servicer cash advances that are unconditionally cancellable without prior
notice to receive the CCF for unconditionally cancellable. The Central Bank has chosen not to
adopt this discretionary treatment, and instead requires a 100% CCF for all off-balance-sheet
exposures, including undrawn servicer cash advances.
2. Adjustment of risk-weights for overlapping exposures
Banks may adjust risk weights for overlapping exposures. An exposure A overlaps another
exposure B if in all circumstances the bank can avoid any loss on exposure B by fulfilling its
obligations with respect to exposure A. For example, if a bank holds notes as an investor but
provides full credit support to those notes, its full credit support obligation precludes any loss from
its exposure to the notes. If a bank can verify that fulfilling its obligations with respect to exposure
A will preclude a loss from its exposure to B under any circumstance, the bank does not need to
calculate risk-weighted assets for its exposure B.
To demonstrate an overlap, a bank may, for the purposes of calculating capital
requirements, split or expand its exposures. That is, splitting exposures into portions that overlap
with another exposure held by the bank and other portions that do not overlap, or expanding
exposures by assuming for capital purposes that obligations with respect to one of the overlapping
exposures are larger than those established contractually. The latter could be done, for instance,
by expanding either the assumed extent of the obligation, or the trigger events to exercise the
facility. A bank may also recognize overlap between exposures in the trading book and
securitisation exposures in the banking book, provided that the bank is able to calculate and
compare the capital charges for the relevant exposures.
3. External Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-ERBA)
To be eligible for use in the securitisation framework, the external credit assessment must
take into account and reflect the entire amount of credit risk exposure the bank has with regard
to all payments owed to it. For example, if a bank is owed both principal and interest, the
assessment must fully take into account and reflect the credit risk associated with timely
repayment of both principal and interest.
A bank is not permitted to use any external credit assessment for risk-weighting purposes
where the assessment is at least partly based on unfunded support provided by the bank itself.
For example, if a bank buys ABCP where it provides an unfunded securitisation exposure
extended to the ABCP program (e.g., liquidity facility or credit enhancement), and that exposure
plays a role in determining the credit assessment on the ABCP, the bank must treat the ABCP as
if it were not rated. The bank also must hold capital against the liquidity facility and/or credit
enhancement as a securitisation exposure.
93

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 93]
CBUAE Classification: Public
External credit assessments used for the SEC-ERBA must be from an eligible external
credit assessment institution (ECAI) as recognized by the Central Bank in accordance with the
Central Bank standards on rating agency recognition. However, the securitisation Standards
additionally requires that the credit assessment, procedures, methodologies, assumptions and