
platform. Please note that an AIF is a supplemental report that does not contain transactional
details.
 Additional Information File with Transactions (“AIFT”): Should the FIU require any further details
including transactions while processing an STR or SAR, then the LFI that originally submitted the
said report may be solicited for further information including transactions by receiving an AIFT
request from the FIU through the Message Board. Should such a situation arise, then the LFI is
required to submit an AIFT report through the goAML. Please note that an AIFT is a supplemental
report that contains transactional details.
 Request for Information (“RFI”) without Transactions: Should the FIU require further information
from multiple LFIs rather than just the entity responsible for submitting the STR or SAR, then an
RFI request will be sent out to the concerned LFIs through the goAML Message Board. Should
such a situation arise, then the LFI is required to submit an RFI report through the goAML portal.
 Request for Information with Transactions (“RFIT”): The ‘RFI with Transaction(s)’ report is similar
to the structure of an RFI request, with the exception that this report type supports the use of
transactions.
 High Risk Country Transaction Report (“HRC”): If, during the establishment or course of the
customer relationship, or when conducting transactions on behalf of a customer or a potential
customer, an LFI identifies transactions related to high-risk countries as defined by the National
Page 15 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 16]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism and financing of Illegal
Organizations Committee2, then the LFI should submit an HRC to the FIU. Such reported
transaction(s) may only be executed three working days after reporting such to the FIU, and if the
FIU does not object to conducting the transaction within the set period.
 High Risk Country Activity Report (“HRCA”): If, during the establishment or course of the customer
relationship, or when conducting an activity on behalf of a customer or a potential customer, a
reporting entity identifies activities related to high-risk countries as defined by the National Anti-
Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism and financing of Illegal Organizations
Committee3, then the entity should submit an HRC to the FIU. Such reported activity(ies) may only
be executed three working days after reporting such to the FIU, and if the FIU does not object to
conducting the activity within the set period.
When all applicable information is collected, analyzed, and documented and the LFI decides that an STR
or SAR is required, the information should be described in the narrative within an investigative narrative
report template in a concise and chronological format. The LFI should divide the narrative into three
sections: an introduction, a body, and a conclusion. The investigative narrative report template is
considered as an addition to the goAML report (due to the potential text limitation within the “goAML
description of the report” field).
 Introduction
The introductory paragraph should provide:
 A brief statement addressing the purpose of the report with a general description of the known or
alleged violation.
 The name(s) of the subject against whom the report is filed.
 Any linked/ previous STRs, SARs, or other reports, including the date of any STR(s) / SAR(s) filed
(or other reports) previously on the suspect or related suspects and the reason why the previous
STR(s) / SAR(s) (or other report) was filed.
Additional Guidance:
 Whether the activity is associated with any sanctioned countries or contained on government lists
for individuals or organisations.
 A summary of the “red flags” and suspicious patterns of activity that initiated the report. (This
information should be provided either in the introduction or conclusion of the narrative).
 Body
The next paragraph or paragraphs of the narrative can provide all pertinent information documenting
why the STR, SAR, or other report was filed and might include:
 Details of parties facilitating the suspicious activity or transactions. If the subject is an entity, details
of the subject can include the entity’s trade license number, date established, line of business,
licensing authority, and ownership structure.
2 https://www.namlcftc.gov.ae/en/high-risk-countries.php
3 Idem note
Page 16 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 17]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Involved suspected transactions (usually identified in chronological order by date and amount) [To
be included only for an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
 The review period for the suspicious activity or transactions.
 The source of funds, destination of funds, and total of suspected amounts. This can include the
transactor and beneficiary information, providing as much detail as possible, including the name
and location of any involved domestic and/or international financial institution(s); names,
addresses, account numbers, and any other available identifiers of originator and beneficiary
transactor(s); and/or third parties or business entities on whose behalf the conductor was acting;
the date(s) of the transaction(s); and amount(s).
 Explain in detail the reason for the suspicion, and why the activity or transaction is determined to
be illegal or suspicious.
 Description of the method of operation (i.e., modus operandi).
Additional Guidance:
 A breakdown of larger volumes of financial activity into categories of credits and debits, and by date
and amount. [To be included only for an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
 An explanation of any observed relationships among the transactors (e.g., shared accounts,
addresses, employment, known or suspected business relationships and/or frequency of
transactions occurring amongst them; appearing together at the LFI and/or counter). [To be
included only for an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
 Specific details on cash transactions that identify the branch(es) where the transaction(s) occurred,
the type of transaction(s), and how the transaction(s) occurred (e.g., night deposit, on-line banking,
ATM, etc.). [To be included only for an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
 Any factual observations or incriminating statements made by the suspect.
 Conclusion
The final paragraph will be covered under “Action Taken by Reporting Entity” field. The final paragraph
of the narrative can summarize the report and might also include:
 Any planned/initiated mitigating steps, including information about any follow-up actions conducted
by the LFI (e.g., intent to close or closure of accounts, ongoing monitoring of activity, etc.).
Additional Guidance:
 Names and telephone numbers of other contacts at the LFI if different from the point of contact
indicated in the report.
 A general description of any additional information related to the LFI that may be made available
to law enforcement by the LFI.
 Names of any law enforcement or department/unit investigating the case who are not already
identified in another section of the report.
Page 17 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 18]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3.3. Best Practices for Drafting an STR or SAR
In general, a narrative should identify the five core components – who? what? when? where? and why? –
of the suspicious activity being reported to the FIU. The method of operation/modus operandi (or how?) is
also important and should be included in the report narrative. An LFI should ensure that the following five
questions are answered prior to submitting an STR, SAR, or other report in the FIU’s goAML system.
Who is conducting the suspicious activity or transaction?
 Describe the subject of the STR, SAR, or other report, otherwise known as the suspect(s),
including the conductor, beneficiary, and accountholders involved in the transaction or activity.
 Provide identifying information on the parties involved in the transaction, such as the suspect’s
occupation and position or title within the business.
 List beneficial owners, directors, officers, and those with signing authority, if possible. If the
transaction or activity involves an entity, include information on the ownership, control, and
structure of the business.
 Provide details about each individual or entity's role in each of the financial transactions
described. It is important to understand who is sending and receiving the funds. [To be included
only for an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
 If more than one individual or entity is involved in the suspicious activity, explain the relationships
among the individuals or entities (if known).
Even though information may not always be available, information should be included to the extent possible.
For instance, addresses for suspects are important; filing LFIs should note not only the suspect’s primary
street addresses, but also, other known addresses. Any identification numbers associated with the
suspect(s) such as passport and driver’s license numbers are also important to document.
What instruments or mechanisms are being used to facilitate the suspicious activity or
transaction(s)?
 Review the instruments or mechanisms used in the suspicious activity (e.g., wire transfers,
foreign currency, Wages Protection System (WPS), letters of credit and other trade instruments,
correspondent accounts, money orders, credit/debit cards, etc.).
 Understand the number of different methods employed for initiating the negotiation of funds,
such as the Internet, phone access, mail, night deposit box, remote dial-up, couriers, or others.
 Describe the source of the funds (as originator) or use of the funds (as beneficiary). In
documenting the movement of funds, identify all account numbers at the LFI affected by the
suspicious activity or transaction and when possible, provide any account numbers held at other
LFIs and the names/locations of the other LFIs involved in the reported activity.
When did the suspicious activity or transaction take place?
 If the activity takes place over a period of time, provide the date when the suspicious activity or
transaction was first observed and describe the duration of the activity.
 To better understand the history and nature of the activity, and the flow of funds, LFIs should
provide information on each individual transaction in a chronological order (e.g., individual
Page 18 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
dates and transaction amounts, rather than only the aggregated amount). [To be included only for
an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
 Provide information on when the transaction was completed or attempted. If the transaction was
not completed, the LFI should indicate this in the narrative. [To be included only for an STR and
supplementary reports involving transactions].
Where did the suspicious activity or transaction take place?
 Explain if multiple offices of a single LFI were involved in the suspicious activity or transaction
being reported. Provide the addresses of those locations.
 Specify if the suspected activity or transaction(s) involves a foreign jurisdiction. In this case,
list the foreign jurisdiction, LFI, address, and any account numbers involved in, or affiliated with the
suspected activity or transaction(s).
 This information should include any location involved in the full transaction chain, including
ultimate originators and beneficiaries to the extent this can be ascertained. [To be included only for
an STR and supplementary reports involving transactions].
Why does the LFI think the activity or transaction is suspicious?
 Describe the industry or business and why the activity or transaction is unusual for the
customer. Consider the types of products and services involved in the activity and the expected
activities of similar customers.
 Assess why the activity created a red flag for the LFI or triggered an alert within the system.
These answers will vary based on the LFI type (for example, a depository institution versus an insurance
company) and an LFI should also consider such factors as:
 The types of products and services the LFI offers;
 The types of accounts the customer has with the LFI;
 The normally expected business activity of the customer (if they are a customer of the LFI), and
why this is not normal or expected activity;
 The purpose of the payment or transaction, to the extent known, reported, alleged, or questioned;
and
 If the activity resulted from an automated alert, the scenario or rule that generated the alert.
How did the suspicious activity or transaction occur?
 Describe how the transaction or pattern of transactions was committed (i.e., the “modus
operandi” or the method of operation). [To be included only for an STR and supplementary reports
involving transactions].
 For example, if there appear to be multiple cheques deposited matched with outgoing wire transfers
from the accounts, the narrative should include information about both the cheques and outbound
transfers (including dates, destinations, amounts, accounts, frequency, and beneficiaries of the
funds transfers).
Page 19 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3.3.1. Defensive STR or SAR Filings4
Defensive filing is the practice of filing STRs or SARs on transactions or activity(ies) that LFIs do not deem
truly suspicious in order to reduce the risk of regulatory penalties for non-filing of STRs or SARs.5 Although
there may be some aspect of the transaction or activity creating potential suspicion, defensive filings do not
report on activity that the LFI truly considers suspicious. As such, defensive filings are generally
discouraged given that such filings diminish the value of STRs and SARs, including by leading to an
increase in non-valuable filings. An STR, SAR, and other report types should be of the best possible quality,
including in that it should have a clearly written narrative with sufficient detail that comprehensively
articulates the factors involving the reported suspicious transaction or activity. As a result, the CBUAE
considers defensive STR or SARs as indicative of an inefficient transaction monitoring system and an LFI’s
weak system of internal controls. An LFI may be asked to correct such deficiencies as part of broader
supervisory measures provided by applicable law, including administrative sanctions, temporary limitation
to business activities, etc. If, for any reason, an LFI needs additional data to assess whether unusual activity
is truly suspicious, the LFI should review other mechanisms—such as expanding the time period for
reviewing alerted transactions (e.g., from 30 days to 90 days) or reviewing threshold-based reports—to
make the determination that an STR or SAR is required.
3.4. How to Submit an STR and Other Report Types
LFIs are required to submit suspicious transaction and activity reports directly to the FIU using the “goAML”
portal, and registration in the system is mandatory for all entities under CBUAE’s supervision. According to
the Guidelines on Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism and Illicit
Organizations for Financial Institutions, the FIU has launched the goAML system for the purposes of
facilitating the filing of STRs, SARs, and other report types by all LFIs. LFIs should register themselves on
the goAML system by following the “GoAML Registration Guide” and maintaining their registration in an
“active” status. An entity’s Compliance Officer or MLRO can register as the user of the system. GoAML
provides a secure link from each LFI to the FIU through their respective supervisory authorities. The system
also has an .xml schema for filing batches of STRs. All newly licensed LFIs should register themselves
immediately after obtaining their financial services license. Failure to register within the goAML system may
result in a breach of the LFI’s AML/CFT obligations and will be dealt with in accordance with the prevailing
legal provisions related to non-compliance.
According to the “goAML XML Submission Guide,” the goAML system reflects multiple mandatory fields,
business rules, and various binding scenarios. Combined, the system only accepts reports that pass
through the minimum requirements set by the FIU. Mandatory fields for submitting a report in the goAML
system are noted below:
4 The UAE FIU has noted instances where SAR or STRs are reported due to the LFI not receiving supporting documents that would
justify the transaction or activity. However, upon the FIU raising a request to the same LFI in the form of an AIF, supporting documents
were subsequently provided for the same subjects and report. This documentation in some instances removed the suspicion of the
transaction and in others, helped explain the transaction or action. Submitting reports to the FIU without first conducting a thorough
investigation and looking at all available evidence creates a situation where non-suspicious transactions may be reported to the FIU.
LFIs are reminded that internal investigations into the suspicious transaction or activity should be conducted to the fullest extent
possible prior to raising an STR or SAR and that related documentation, when available or easily retrievable, should be included with
the STR or SAR.
5 Egmont Group, Enterprise-wide STR Sharing: Issues and Approaches, Pg. 17
Page 20 of 46