[Document: PI.pdf, Page 40 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
23. The expression for the supervisory delta adjustment for CDOs is based on attachment and
detachment points for any tranche of the CDO. The precise specification (including the values of
the embedded constants of 14 and 15) is the result of an empirical exercise conducted by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to identify a relatively simple functional form that would
provide a sufficiently close fit to CDO sensitivities as reported by a set of globally active banks.
Supervisory Delta Adjustments
Supervisory Delta
Type of Derivative Transaction
Adjustment
Purchased Call Option F
Purchased Put Option F-1
Sold Call Option -F
Sold Put Option 1-F
Purchased CDO Tranche (Long Protection) G
Sold CDO Tranche (Short Protection) -G
Any Other Derivative Type, Long in the Primary Risk Factor +1
Any Other Derivative Type, Short in the Primary Risk Factor -1
Definitions
For options:
ln(𝑃/𝐾)+0.5×𝜎2𝑇
𝐹 =Φ( )
𝜎√𝑇
In this expression, P is the current forward value of the underlying price or rate, K is the exercise
or strike price of the option, T is the time to the latest contractual exercise date of the option, 
is the appropriate supervisory volatility from Table 2, and Φ is the standard normal cumulative
density function. A supervisory volatility of 50% should be used on swaptions for all currencies.
For CDO tranches:
15
𝐺 =
(1+14𝐴)(1+14𝐷)
In this expression, A is the attachment point of the CDO tranche and D is the detachment point
of the CDO tranche.
41

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 41]
CBUAE Classification: Public
H. Complex Derivatives
24. The Standards requires that complex trades with more than one risk driver (e.g. multi-
asset or hybrid derivatives) must be allocated to more than one asset class when the material risk
drivers span more than one asset class. The full amount of the trade must be included in the PFE
calculation for each of the relevant asset classes. Asset-class allocation of complex derivatives is
a point of national discretion in the Basel framework, and the Central Bank believes that requiring
banks to identify such trades and allocate them accordingly places appropriate responsibility on
banks that choose to engage in such trades.
25. Examples of derivatives that reference the basis between two risk factors and are
denominated in a single currency (basis transactions) include three-month Libor versus six-month
Libor, three-month Libor versus three-month T-Bill, one-month Libor versus OIS rate, or Brent
Crude oil versus Henry Hub gas. These examples are provided as illustrations, and do not
represent an exhaustive list.
26. Hedging sets for derivatives that reference the volatility of a risk factor (volatility
transactions) must follow the same hedging set construction outlined in the Standards for
derivatives in that asset class; for example, all equity volatility transactions form a single hedging
set. Examples of volatility transactions include variance and volatility swaps, or options on realized
or implied volatility.
I. Unrated Reference Assets
27. The supervisory factor for credit derivatives depends on the credit rating of the underlying
reference asset. The Basel framework does not provide a specific treatment of unrated reference
assets. The Central Bank believes that credit derivatives on unrated reference entities are likely
to be rare. However, for the sake of completeness, the Standards requires that any such credit
derivatives be treated in a manner that is broadly consistent with the treatment of unrated entities
in other aspects of the risk-based capital framework, through use of a Supervisory Factor
corresponding to BBB or BB ratings as described in the Standards.
28. For an entity for which a credit rating is not available, a bank should use the Supervisory
Factor corresponding to BBB. However, where the exposure is associated with an elevated risk
of default, the bank should use the Supervisory Factor for BB. In this context, “elevated risk of
default” should also be understood to include instances in which it is difficult or impossible to
assess adequately whether the exposure has high risk of loss due to default by the obligor. A
bank trading credit derivatives referencing unrated entities should conduct their own analysis to
examine this risk.
J. Commodity Derivatives
29. Note that the Standards defines the term “commodity type” for purposes of calculation of
exposure for CCR. A commodity type is defined as a set of commodities with broadly similar risk
drivers, such that the prices or volatilities of commodities of the same commodity type may
reasonably be expected to move with similar direction and timing and to bear predictable
relationships to one another. For example, a commodity type such as coal might include several
types of coal, and a commodity type such as oil might include oil of different grades from different
sources. The prices of commodities of a given type may not move precisely in lock step, but they
are likely to move in the same direction at roughly the same time, due to their dependence on
common forces in commodity markets. Long and short trades within a single commodity type can
be fully offset.
42

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 42]
CBUAE Classification: Public
30. For commodity derivatives, defining individual commodity types is operationally difficult. In
fact, it is generally not possible to fully specify all relevant distinctions between commodity types,
and as a result, a single commodity type is likely to include individual commodities that in practice
differ to some extent in the dynamic behaviour they exhibit. As a result, not all basis risk is likely
to be captured. Nonetheless, banks should attempt to minimize unrecognized basis risk through
sound definitions of commodity types.
31. The Standards requires a bank to establish appropriate governance processes for the
creation and maintenance of the list of defined commodity types used by the bank for CCR
calculations, with clear definitions and independent internal review or validation processes to
ensure that commodities grouped as a single type are in fact similar. A bank can only use the
specifically defined commodity types it has established through its adequately controlled internal
processes.
32. Trades within the same commodity hedging set (Energy, Metals, Agriculture, and Other)
enjoy partial offsetting through the use of correlation values established in the Standards, with
correlation values varying by asset subclass. More specifically, partial offsetting applies only to
the systematic component, not the issuer-specific or idiosyncratic component. Note that Electricity
is a sub-class of the Commodity asset class, but is itself part of the broader Energy hedging set,
rather than constituting a distinct hedging set.
K. Single-Name and Index Derivatives
33. For credit derivatives, there is one credit reference entity for each reference debt
instrument that underlies a single-name transaction allocated to the credit risk category. Single-
name transactions should be assigned to the same credit reference entity only where the
underlying reference debt instrument of those transactions is issued by the same issuer.
34. The approach for establishing the reference entity for equity derivatives should correspond
to the general approach for credit derivatives.
35. For credit derivatives with indices as the underlying instrument, there should be one
reference entity for each group of reference debt instruments or single-name credit derivatives
that underlie a multi-name transaction. Multi-name transactions should be assigned to the same
credit reference entity only where the group of underlying reference debt instruments or single-
name credit derivatives of those transactions has the same constituents. The determination of
whether an index is investment grade or speculative grade should be based on the credit quality
of the majority of its individual constituents.
36. Again, the approach for equity index derivatives should follow the general approach for
credit index derivatives.
L. Special Cases of Margin Agreements
37. When multiple margin agreements apply to a single netting set, the netting set should be
broken down into sub-netting sets that align with the respective margin agreement for calculating
both RC and PFE.
38. When a single margin agreement applies to multiple netting sets, RC at any given time is
determined by the sum of two terms. The first term is equal to the un-margined current exposure