[Document: document.pdf, Page 141]
CBUAE Classification: Public
X. External Credit Assessment Institutions
I. Introduction and Scope
1. Banks are required to use external ratings to determine risk weights for certain types of
exposures. However, only external ratings provided by External Credit Assessment Institutions
(ECAIs) that have been recognized as eligible for that purpose by the Central Bank may be used.
This Guidance describes the specific requirements for the recognition of eligible ECAIs, together
with certain other aspects of the use of ratings within the Central Bank’s capital adequacy
framework. Note that additional requirements related to the use of ratings in capital requirements
for securitisation are provided in the Central Bank’s Standards on Required Capital for
Securitisation Exposures.
2. The Guidance is based closely on requirements of the framework for capital adequacy
developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), specifically the requirements
articulated by the BCBS in International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital
Standards: A Revised Framework (comprehensive version June 2006), and the revisions from
Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems, December
2010 (rev June 2011).
II. Eligibility Criteria
3. ECAIs may be considered eligible for recognition if they meet the criteria articulated in this
section. The Central Bank also takes into account the criteria and conditions provided in the
IOSCO Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating Agencies (IOSCO CRA Code) when
determining ECAI eligibility.
4. The Central Bank’s eligibility determination for each ECAI applies only with respect to the
types of claims for which the eligibility criteria have been met by that ECAI.
A. Objectivity
5. ECAI’s should have a methodology for assigning credit ratings that is rigorous and
systematic, and is subject to validation based on historical experience. Ratings assessments
should be based on methodologies combining qualitative and quantitative approaches. Moreover,
assessments must be subject to ongoing review and responsive to changes in financial condition.
To establish that an ECAI fulfils this primary component of eligibility criteria, it must demonstrate
that it meets the following minimum standards:
(i) The ECAI has established rating definitions, criteria, and methodologies, and apply
them consistently;
(ii) The ECAI should have a robust procedure of rating assignment based on published
information, market data, interviews with management, and/or other sources of
information that provide a sound basis for purposes of assigning the ratings;
(iii) When assigning risk ratings, the ECAI should take into account all major features of
credit quality that are relevant under the ECAI’s applicable methodology, and should
ensure that the ratings are assigned taking into account all risk factors of the rated
entity or issue relevant under the ECAI’s applicable methodology;
139

[Document: document.pdf, Page 142]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iv) The ECAI should demonstrate that rating methodologies are subject to quantitative
back testing. For this purpose, the ECAI should calculate and publish default studies,
recovery studies, rating transition matrices, or other analyses as relevant to the
ECAI’s rating methodology. The analysis should reflect a definition of default that is
consistent with international standards, subject to possible adjustments to take into
account local practices or institutional or market conditions;
(v) The rating methodology for each market segment, including rigorous back testing,
must have been established for at least one year and preferably three years;
(vi) All rating decisions should be made based on the ECAI’s established criteria and
methodologies, subject to documented variations approved in accordance with the
ECAI’s procedures;
(vii) The ECAI should have a mechanism to review its procedures and methodologies to
adapt them to a potentially changing environment; and
(viii) The ECAI should maintain adequate systems and internal records to support its
assigned ratings.
B. Independence
6. The ECAI should be free from any economic or external political pressures that may
influence its credit ratings. In particular, an ECAI should not delay or refrain from taking a rating
action based on its potential effect (economic, political or otherwise). The independence of an
ECAI shall be assessed on the basis of the following five parameters:
(i) Ownership: The ownership structure should not be such that it could jeopardize the
objectivity of the rating process. For example, the owners should not hold 10 percent
or more of the equity of any entity rated by the ECAI.
(ii) Organizational Structure and Corporate Governance: The ECAI should
demonstrate that its organizational structure minimizes the scope for external
influences to influence the rating process inappropriately. The ECAI should have in
place effective corporate governance that safeguards the independence of its credit
ratings, promotes integrity, and ensures that internal disagreements over ratings are
resolved in ways that do not compromise the overall effectiveness of the rating
process.
(iii) Financial Resources: The ECAI must demonstrate that its business is financially
viable and is able to sustain any commercial pressure that might be exerted by
external entities, including the entities being rated. The ECAI’s financial position
should not depend significantly on the provision of other services to the rated entities.
(iv) External Conflict of Interest: The credit rating process of the ECAI should have the
ability to withstand external pressures. The ECAI should demonstrate that it is free
from any type of external conflicts of interest, or that conflicts of interest are disclosed
and managed.
(v) Separation: An ECAI should separate its rating business operationally, legally, and
if practicable, physically from its other business operations that may present a
conflict of interest, such as advisory services.
140

[Document: document.pdf, Page 143]
CBUAE Classification: Public
C. International Access and Transparency
7. The individual ratings, the key elements underlying the ratings, and whether the issuer
participated in the rating process should be information that is publicly available on a non-selective
basis.
8. In order to promote transparency and enable stakeholders to make decisions about the
appropriateness of its credit rating methods, an ECAI should disclose sufficient information (e.g.,
rating definition, methods of arriving at the rating, rating process, time horizon of the rating, and
the surveillance and review procedure) to facilitate such decisions. The ECAI’s general
procedures, methodologies, and assumptions for arriving at ratings should be publicly available.
D. Disclosure
9. A rating should be disclosed as soon as practicably possible after issuance. When
disclosing a rating, the information should be clearly worded, and should indicate the nature of
the rating and relevant limitations, while providing appropriate warning to users of the potential
danger of unduly relying on the rating to make investment or other decisions.
10. To promote transparency and market discipline, an ECAI should demonstrate that it
provides access to information that enables stakeholders to make decisions about the
appropriateness of ratings for the intended use or uses. At a minimum, the ECAI is expected to
make public the following information:
 Code of conduct;
 Definition of default;
 The time horizons reflected in ratings;
 Rating definitions;
 Rating methods;
 Actual default rates experienced in each rating category;
 Rating transition matrices;
 Whether particular ratings are solicited or unsolicited;
 The date of last review and update of ratings;
 The general nature of compensation arrangements with rated entities; and
 Any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
11. At a minimum, the following conflict-of-interest situations and their influence on the ECAI’s
credit rating methodologies or credit rating actions must be disclosed:
(i) The ECAI is being paid to issue a credit rating by a rated entity or by the obligor,
originator, underwriter, or arranger of a rated obligation;
(ii) The ECAI is being paid by subscribers with a financial interest that could be affected
by a credit rating action of the ECAI;
141

[Document: document.pdf, Page 144]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The ECAI is being paid by rated entities, obligors, originators, underwriters,
arrangers, or subscribers for services other than issuing credit ratings or providing
access to the ECAI’s credit ratings;
(iv) The ECAI is providing a preliminary indication or similar indication of credit quality to
an entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger prior to being hired to determine
the final credit rating for the entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger; and
(v) The ECAI has a direct or indirect ownership interest in a rated entity or obligor, or a
rated entity or obligor has a direct or indirect ownership interest in the ECAI.
12. An ECAI should disclose the general nature of its compensation arrangements with rated
entities, obligors, lead underwriters, or arrangers. When the ECAI receives compensation
unrelated to its credit rating services from a party such as a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead
underwriter, or arranger, the ECAI should disclose such compensation as a percentage of the
total annual compensation received from that party in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate. An ECAI should disclose in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate, if it receives 10% or more of its annual revenue from a single party
(e.g., a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead underwriter, arranger, or subscriber, or any of their
affiliates).
E. Resources
13. ECAI should possess sufficient human and technical resources to produce high quality
credit ratings. Evidence of resource sufficiency includes:
(i) Technical expertise of the people should be sufficient to conduct the analysis to
support the assignment of ratings, and to maintain contact with senior and
operational levels within the entities that are rated. In particular, ECAIs should assign
analysts with appropriate knowledge and experience to assess the creditworthiness
of the type of entity or obligation being rated; and
(ii) With respect to technical resources, an ECAI is expected to apply quantitative
techniques and models that can appropriately process and analyze the quantities of
data required to support the rating process.
F. Credibility
14. The ECAI must demonstrate that it enjoys credibility in the markets in which it operates.
Such credibility is gauged on the basis of:
(i) The extent to which it meets the resources requirements stated above;
(ii) The extent to which independent parties (investors, insurers etc.) rely on the ECAI’s
risk ratings; and
(iii) The existence of internal procedures to prevent misuse of confidential information.
142

[Document: document.pdf, Page 145]
CBUAE Classification: Public
G. No Abuse of Unsolicited Ratings
15. The Central Bank may request the ECAI to demonstrate that it has not used unsolicited
ratings to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings. If the Central Bank becomes aware
of an ECAI using unsolicited ratings to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings, the
Central Bank may consider whether it is appropriate to revoke the recognition of the ECAI as
eligible for capital adequacy purposes.
H. Cooperation with the Supervisor
16. Eligible ECAIs should notify the Central Bank of significant changes to methodologies,
and should provide the Central Bank with sufficient access to external ratings and other relevant
data to support initial and ongoing determination of eligibility.
I. Code of Conduct and Regulation
17. The ECAI must adopt and adhere to a code of conduct that is consistent with the IOSCO
CRA Code. The ECAI must be subject to effective supervision on an ongoing basis by a
competent regulatory authority that has adopted a regulatory regime consistent with the IOSCO
CRA Code, and that incorporates a registration system for ECAIs.
III. Recognition of ECAIs
18. The Central Bank’s standards for capital adequacy include mappings that identify risk
weights for various types of exposures using a scale that corresponds most closely to the rating
system used by Standard & Poor’s. This is done for purposes of exposition and for consistency
with the BCBS framework. However, banks should not interpret use of this scale as a Central
Bank endorsement of any particular rating agency. Banks may select among all eligible rating
agencies as appropriate for purposes of determining risk weights.