
requirement as a weighted average of the buffers that are being applied in jurisdictions to which
they have an exposure. Credit exposures in this case include all private sector credit exposures
that attract a credit risk capital charge or the risk weighted equivalent trading book capital charges
for specific risk and securitisation.
19. The weighting applied to the buffer in place in each jurisdiction will be the bank’s total
credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures in that jurisdiction, divided by the
bank’s total credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures across all jurisdictions.
Banks must determine whether the ultimate counterparty is a private sector exposure, as well as
the location of the “ultimate risk”, to the extent possible.
20. The charge for the relevant portfolio should be allocated to the geographic regions of the
constituents of the portfolio by calculating the proportion of the portfolio’s total credit exposure
arising from credit exposure to counterparties in each geographic region.
Please refer to Question 15 of the FAQs below for further guidance and examples of
countercyclical buffers.
5

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 5]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3. Regulatory adjustments
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
21. Intangible assets typically do not generate any cash flows and hence their value, when a
bank is in need of immediate additional capital to absorb losses, is uncertain. For this reason, all
intangible assets are deducted from CET1 (5.1.8.1).
22. From regulatory perspective, goodwill and intangible assets have the same meaning as
under IFRS.
23. Capitalized software costs that is not “integral to hardware” is to be treated as an intangible
asset and software that is “integral to hardware” is to be treated as property, plant and equipment
(i.e. as a fixed asset).
24. The amount of intangible assets to be deducted should be net of any associated deferred
tax liability (DTL) that would be extinguished if the asset became impaired or derecognised under
the applicable accounting standards.
25. Goodwill and intangible assets that are deducted from CET1, they are excluded from the
calculation of RWA for credit risk exposure value.
Deferred Tax Assets
26. Deferredtaxassets(DTAs)typicallyarisewhen abank:
 suffers a net loss in a financial year and is permitted to carry forward this loss to offset
future profits when calculating its tax bill (net losses carried forward)
 has to reduce the value of an asset on the balance sheet, but this 'loss in value' is not
recognised by the tax authorities until a future period (temporary timing difference)
27. DTAs arising from net losses carried forward have to be deducted in full from a bank's
CET1 (5.1.8.2). This recognises that their value can only be derived through the existence of
future taxable income. On the other hand, a DTA relying on future profitability and arising from
temporary timing differences is subject to the 'threshold deduction rule' (5.1.9.2).
4. Threshold Deduction
28. The purpose of calculating the threshold is to limit the significant investments in the
common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions (banks, insurance and other financial
entities) and deferred tax assets (arising from temporary differences) to 15% of the CET1 after all
deduction (Deduction includes regulatory deductions and the amount of significant investments
in the common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions and deferred tax assets in full).
29. Therefore, significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial
institutions and deferred tax assets may receive limited recognition of 10% CET1 individually (CET
after regulatory adjustment outlined in section3 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard).
30. The amount that is recognised will receive risk weight of 250% and the remaining amount
will be deducted. See Appendix 5 for example.
6

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 6 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Significant investment in commercial entities
31. For purposes of this section, 'significant investments' in a commercial entity is defined as
any investment in the capital instruments of a commercial entity by a bank which is equivalent to
or more than 10% of CET 1 of the bank (after application of regulatory and threshold deduction).
See Appendix 3 for an example.
6. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: When will the Standards, Guidance and Template with regards to Solo reporting be
issued by the Central Bank?
The Central Bank will issue all related material regarding Solo reporting during 2020. Formal
communication will be issued in advance.
Question 2: What is meant by the book value of an investment?
The book value of an investment shall be in accordance with the applicable accountingframework
(IFRS). This valuation must be accepted by an external auditor.
Question 3: Are capital shortfalls of non-consolidated insurance companies to be deducted from
CET1?
Yes, any capital shortfall on a company has to be deducted.
Question 4: If the Bank meets minimum CET1 ratios can the excess CET1 also be counted to meet
AT1 and Total CAR?
Yes.
Question 5: Please clarify whether minority interest related to any other regulated financial entity
(whichis not a bank) should be included or not.
Onlyminority interest of the subsidiary that are subject to the same minimum prudential standards
and level of supervision as a bank be eligible for inclusion in the capital.
Question 6: Is the bank able to include the profit & loss in the year-end CAR calculation before the
issuance of the audited financial statements?
Bank may include interim profit/ yearend profit in CET1 capital only if reviewed or audited by
external auditors. Furthermore, the expected dividend should be deducted in Q4.
Question 7: Is subordinated Debt currently considered Tier 2 as per Basel III, hence no
amortization is required?
Grandfathering rule plus amortization in last 5 years - refer to Standards for Capital Adequacy of
banks in UAE, Tier Capital Supply Standard- paragraph 27 (iv)(b) . Reference should also be
made to the Tier Capital Instruments Standards.
Question 8: Do dividends need to be deducted from CET1 after the proposal from the Board or
after Central Bank approval or after approval from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting?
Please refer to Question 6
7