[Document: PI.pdf, Page 105 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
calculation above.
Foreign Exchange (FX) Exceptions
The Central Bank of UAE may allow banks to exclude certain FX positions from the capital
charges calculation. Banks have to comply with both the requirement of para 70 of the Market
Risk section of the standards.
Items that are deducted from a bank’s capital when calculating its capital base, such as
investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries, or other long-term participations denominated in
foreign currencies, which are reported in the published accounts at historic cost, do not need to
be included as foreign currency exposures for the foreign exchange risk calculation.
Banks with negligible business in foreign currencies and with no FX positions taken for
their own account may exclude their FX positions if they meet both of the following requirements:
 their FX business (the greater of the sum of their gross long positions and the sum of their
gross short positions) does not exceed 100% of total capital (Tier 1 + Tier 2)
 their overall net open position does not exceed 2% of its total capital
D. Commodity Risk
Market risk can be influenced by changes in commodity prices, that is, commodity risk.
Commodity risk is the risk that on- or off-balance sheet positions will be adversely affected by
movements in commodity prices.
A commodity is defined as a physical product that can be traded on a secondary market,
for example, agricultural products, minerals and precious metals. Gold; however, is covered under
the framework for foreign exchange.
Price risk in commodities is often more complex and volatile than price risk associated
with currencies and interest rates. One reason for this is that commodity prices are influenced by
natural events such as floods and droughts. Changes in supply and demand also have more
dramatic effects on price and volatility, and commodity markets often lack liquidity.
Commodity risk only has a general market risk component because commodity prices are
not influenced by specific risk.
Banks using portfolio strategies involving forward and derivative contracts on commodities
are exposed to a variety of additional risks, such as:
 Basis risk. the risk of changes in the cost of carry for forward positions and options. Cost
of carry is a margin and refers to the net effect of borrowing funds for a certain period of
time and investing them in a financial instrument or commodity for the same period of time.
If the interest earned on the instrument or commodity is greater than the cost of borrowing,
then the cost of carry is positive. The cost of carry can also be negative if the cost of
borrowing is greater than the interest earned.
 Forward gap risk. This is the risk wherein forward prices may change for reasons other
than a change in interest rates.
It is important to note that these risks could well exceed the risk associated with changes
in spot prices of commodities.
106

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 106]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. `Treatment of Commodities
Offsetting
When measuring risk in commodities, offsetting between positions is restricted.
 Offsetting is allowed between long and short positions in exactly the same commodity to
calculate open positions.
 In general, offsetting is not allowed between positions in different commodities. However,
the Central Bank may permit offset between different sub-categories of the same
commodity, for example, different categories of crude oil, if:
 they are deliverable against each other
 they are close substitutes for each other, with a minimum correlation of 0.9
between price movements over a period of at least one year
Correlations
Banks using correlations between commodities to offset commodity positions must have
obtained prior approval from the Central bank of UAE.
2. Calculating the Capital Charge
Two alternative approaches for calculating the capital charge for commodities are set out
by the standardised measurement method:
a) Simplified Approach
Under the simplified approach, banks must express each commodity position, spot plus
forward, in terms of the standard unit of measurement (barrels, kilos, grams, and so on).
The capital charge is the sum of two charges:
 15% of the net position in each commodity. All commodity derivatives and off-balance
sheet positions affected by changes in commodity prices should be included.
 3% of the bank's gross commodity positions, that is, the sum of the net long plus net short
positions in each commodity, calculated using the current spot price. This charge
addresses basis risk, interest rate risk and forward gap risk.
b) Maturity Ladder Approach
There are seven steps involved in calculating the capital charge for commodities using the
maturity ladder approach. A separate maturity ladder must be used for each commodity.
The maturity ladder approach
Step 1 Express each commodity position in terms of the standard unit of measurement,
and value in the reporting currency at the current spot price
Step 2 Slot each position into a time band in the maturity ladder according to remaining
maturity
Step 3 Apply a capital charge of 1.5% to the sum of the matched long and short positions
in each time band to capture spread risk. Instead of applying the 1.5% spread risk
charge to the sum of matched long and short positions in each time band, some
countries apply a 3% spread risk charge to the matched position.
Step 4 Apply a capital charge of 0.6% to the residual net position carried forward to the
next relevant time band, multiplied by the number of time bands it is carried.
Step 5 Repeat step 3 and step 4 for each time band.
107

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 107]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Step 6 Apply a capital charge of 15% to the overall long or short net open position.
Step 7 Derive the total capital charge by summing the charges for spread risk, for
positions carried forward and for the overall net open position.
3. Treatment of Commodity Derivatives
All commodity derivatives and off-balance sheet positions affected by changes in
commodity prices should be included in the commodities risk measurement framework. This
includes commodity futures, commodity swaps, and options where the “delta plus” method is
used.
E. Options
Treatment of Options
There is a section of the market risk framework devoted to the treatment of options.
The market risk charge for options can be calculated using one of the following methods:
 the simplified approach
 an intermediate approach: the delta-plus method
The more significant a bank's trading activities, the more sophisticated the approach it
should use. The following table shows which methods a bank can use:
Simplified approach Intermediate approach
Delta- plus method
Bank uses √ √
purchased options
only
Bank writes options ₓ √
Banks that solely use purchased options are free to use the simplified approach, whereas
banks that also write options are expected to use the intermediate approach. If a bank has option
positions, but all of those written options are hedged by perfectly matched long positions in exactly
the same options, no capital is required for market risk on those options. However, banks need
to report the hedged options in the respective sheet.
a) Simplified Approach
Option positions and their associated underlying (cash or forward) are 'carved out' from
other risk types in the standardised approach. They are subject to separately calculated capital
charges that incorporate both general market risk and specific risk. These charges are then added
to the capital charges for the relevant risk categories: interest rate risk, equities risk, foreign
exchange risk or commodities risk.
In some cases, such as foreign exchange, it may be unclear which side is the “underlying
security.” In such cases, the asset that would be received if the option were exercised should be
considered as the underlying. In addition, the nominal value should be used for items where the
market value of the underlying instrument could be zero, such as caps and floors, swaptions, or
similar instruments.
108

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 108]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The capital charges under the simplified approach are as follows:
Simplified approach : capital charges
Position Treatment
Hedged positions: long cash position in the The capital charge is the market value of the
underlying instrument and long put or short underlying security multiplied by the sum of
cash position in the underlying instrument specific and general market risk charges for
and long call the underlying, less the amount the option is
in-the-money (if any) bounded at zero.
Outright option positions: long call or long The capital charge is the lesser of:
put  The market value of the underlying
security multiplied by the sum of
specific and general market risk
charges for the underlying
 The market value of the option
b) Intermediate Approach
The procedure for general market risk is explained below. The specific risk capital charges
are determined separately by multiplying the delta-equivalent of each option by the specific risk
charges for each risk category.
The delta-plus method
The delta-plus method uses the sensitivity parameters or Greek letters associated with
options to measure their market risk and capital requirements.
Options should be included in market risk calculations for each type of risk as a delta-
weighted position equal to the market value of the underlying multiplied by the delta.
The delta-equivalent position of each option becomes part of the standardised approach,
with the delta-equivalent amount subject to the applicable market risk capital charges. Separate
capital charges are then applied to the gamma and Vega risks of the option positions.
Greek Letters: Five coefficients are used to help explain how option values behave in relation to
changes in market parameters (price of the underlying asset, the strike price, the volatility of the
underlying, the time to maturity and the risk-free interest rate). These are represented by the
Greek letters delta, gamma, Vega, theta and rho, and are referred to as the 'option Greeks'.
 Delta (Δ) measures the rate of change in the value of an option with respect to a change
in the price of the underlying asset.
 Gamma (Γ) measures the rate ofchange in the delta of an option with respect to a change
in the price of the underlying asset.
 Vega (Λ) measures the rate of change in an option price with respect to a change in market
volatility for the underlying asset price.