
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Historical shocks experienced by the bank due to market sentiment and
corresponding to macro-financial factors; and
 Additional scenarios prescribed by the Central Bank specifically through
supervisory interactions or financial stability processes.
Capital Calculation
90. The capital requirement should be aggregated across all currencies and scenarios
conservatively.
91. The estimation of the Pillar 2 capital corresponding to IRRBB should be based on the
most conservative loss arising from (i) the change in the economic value of equity (ΔEVE), and
(ii) the change in net interest income (ΔNII). The most conservative result should be considered
across all the scenarios calibrated by the bank. (In avoidance of doubt, the allocated capital
for IRRBB should not be lower than the maximum of the absolute EVE impact and the absolute
NII impact: Max(abs(EVE impact), abs(NII impact).
92. The Central Bank considers a bank as an outlier when the IRRBB EVE impact based
on the standard parallel shock leads to an economic value decline of more than 15% of its Tier
1 capital. The Central Bank may request an outlier bank to:
(i) Reduce its IRRBB exposures (e.g. by hedging);
(ii) Raise additional capital;
(iii) Set constraints on the internal risk parameters used by a bank; and/ or
(iv) Improve its risk managementframework.
93. Irrespective of the approach or model chosen by the bank, at a minimum each bank
should calculate and report IRRBB using the methodology described by the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
G. Model Risk
94. Models have become an integral part of decision-making in the banking sector for risk
management, business decisions, and accounting. Inaccurate model results, e.g. based on
wrong assumptions or valuations, may lead to actual or potential financial losses or an
underestimation of risks. Therefore, the Central Bank considers model risk a significant risk
type.
95. Simple models should not be confused with poorly designed models. Poorly designed
models can be misleading and interfere with sound decision-making. Small and/or
unsophisticated banks can employ simple models. However, they cannot employ poorly
designed models. Each bank should manage model risk in accordance to the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
96. Model risk should be incorporated in each banks’ risk framework alongside other key
risks, as inherent consequences of conducting their activities (refer to Appendix 3.2).
Consequently, model risk should be managed through a formal process incorporating the
bank’s appetite for model uncertainty. The framework should be designed to identify, measure,
monitor, and mitigate this risk. A bank should mitigate a large appetite for model risk by
counter-measures such as conservative buffers on model results and/ or additional allocated
Pillar 2 capital.
164

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 17]
CBUAE Classification: Public
97. The Central Bank recognises that the estimation of model risk is challenging. However,
each bank should demonstrate that they have implemented steps to measure the potential
losses arising from model risk. At minimum, each bank should implement a grouping approach
to categorise models according to their associated model risk. The uncertainty and losses
arising from models should be estimated by using a range of different techniques, including:
(i) Internal and external validations;
(ii) Comparison against alternative models;
(iii) Sensitivity analysis; and
(iv) Stress tests.
98. Each bank should also consider the quality of its model risk management in the model
risk analysis, including but not limited to the quality of model documentation, data,
assumptions, validation, staff, implementation, and usage.
Risk Diversification Effects
99. Each bank is expected to take a prudent approach whenever assuming risk
diversification effects. Furthermore, each bank should be aware that the Central Bank as a
matter of principle will not take into account inter-risk diversification in the SREP. Banks should
be cognisant of this when applying inter-risk diversification in its ICAAP.
H. Financial Risks from Climate Change
100. Banks are expected to build up Board awareness and understanding of the financial
risks arising from climate change and how they will affect their business models. Each bank
should use scenario analysis and stress tests to improve the risk identification process, to
understand the short- and long-term financial risks to their business model from climate
change, and to develop appropriate strategies accordingly.
I. Liquidity Risk and Funding Cost
101. Though capital is not a direct mitigation for liquidity risk and liquidity is not a mitigation
for capital risk, both risk types are interlinked. The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) are
expected to inform each other; with respect to the underlying assumptions, stress test results,
and forecasted management actions. Each bank is expected to assess the potential impact of
scenarios, integrating capital and liquidity impacts, and potential feedback processes, taking
into account, in particular, losses arising from the liquidation of assets, increased funding costs
or availability of funding during periods of stress.
102. For example, each bank is expected to assess the impact of deteriorating capital levels,
as projected in the ICAAP, on their liquidity. A downgrade by an external rating agency could,
for example, have direct implications for the refinancing ability of the bank. Vice versa, changes
in funding cost could impact capital adequacy.
VII. ICAAP Stress Test and Reverse Stress Test
103. Stress test helps to improve the bank’s understanding of the vulnerabilities that it faces
under exceptional, but plausible events, and provide the bank with an indication of how much
capital might be needed to absorb losses if such events occur, which supplements other risk
management approaches and measures. These events can be financial, operational, legal, or
relate to any other risk that may have an economic impact on the bank. The results derived
165

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 18]
CBUAE Classification: Public
from stress tests can also assist the bank in determining the appropriate appetite for different
types of risks and in estimating the amount of capital that should be set aside to cover them.
104. Each bank is required to implement a stress testing framework to address both the
needs of the ICAAP and broader risk management. Stress tests and the stress test outcome
analysis should not be confined to the ICAAP. It should be designed to support decision-
making across the bank as explained in this section.
105. Each bank should perform an in-depth review of its potential vulnerabilities, capturing
all material risks on a bank-wide basis that result from its business model and operating
environment in the context of adverse events, stressed macroeconomic (e.g. economic cycle
risk), and financial conditions.
106. As part of the ICAAP exercise, each bank should carry out integrated, regular, rigorous,
and forward-looking stress tests that are appropriate to the nature of the bank’s business
model and major sources of risk. The frequency should be annually and more frequently, when
necessary, depending on the individual circumstances.
107. The Central Bank may challenge the key assumptions and their continuing relevance
to ensure that there is sufficient capital to withstand the impact of possible adverse events and/
or changes in market conditions.
Governance
108. The Board is responsible for the effective implementation of the stress tests framework
through appropriate delegation to Senior Management and subject-matter experts across the
bank. This framework should be supported by robust governance, processes, methods, and
systems with associated policies and procedures approved by the Board. The Board is not
only responsible for the stress testing policies, but also for oversight of the stress testing
execution. It is also responsible for the potential measures to mitigate stress scenario
outcomes and the key decisions and actions taken based on the stress testing results, such
as the consideration of stress testing outcomes in strategy and capital planning.
109. The stakeholders involved in a particular stress testing framework depend on the type
of stress tests. The scenario design, quantification of impact and the identification of mitigating
actions will involve a range of subject matter experts across the bank. Stress test-related
activities are not the sole responsibility of the team in charge of preparing the ICAAP or in
charge of the stress testing programme. Rather, the execution of stress tests is a collective
exercise, whereby numerous stakeholders contribute to the design, measurement, reporting
and analysis of stress tests. Stakeholders should include Senior Management and the Board.
Types of stress test exercises
110. Each bank is required to establish several distinct forms of stress test exercises as
described hereunder, however for the purposes of an ICAAP the minimum expectation is to
conduct internal enterprise-wide stress tests and portfolio-level stress tests. Regulatory stress
tests are not acceptable as the only form of internal stress tests:
a) Internal enterprise-wide stress tests: The purpose of these exercises to
analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank’s solvency, profitability,
stability, and capital. The methodology and scope of such stress tests should
be designed to address the specific risk profile of each bank, and will thus differ
from regulatory stress tests. These exercises are generally executed as top-
down exercises, with the objective to capture a wide scope of risks and
portfolios. Such exercise should support strategic decision related to the risk
appetite of the bank, its risk profile, and its portfolio allocation. Each bank should
employ at least three (3) scenarios in the execution of internal enterprise-wide
166

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
stress tests.
b) Internal portfolio-level stress tests: The purpose of these exercises to
execute frequent, variable and proactive stress tests on the various portfolios of
the bank. These stress tests are generally executed as bottom-up exercises,
with the objective to measure the stress impact at portfolio level accurately. The
scenarios and the methodologies should be granular and fully tailored to the risk
profile of each portfolio. Deteriorating economic circumstances are typically the
drivers for conducting unscheduled stress tests on a particular portfolio, for
example a declining outlook in the residential real estate sector would motivate
a stress tests on the commensurate portfolio. These stress tests can result in
the identification of risks that were not captured by the enterprise-wide stresses.
Consequently, these exercises should support, motivate strategic, and tactical
decisions at portfolio and/or facility level.
c) Regulatory stress tests: These exercises are commissioned by the Central
Bank or other supervisors, to whom banks’ foreign subsidiaries are accountable.
These exercises follow the scenarios and methodologies prescribed by
supervisors, which cover most of the bank’s portfolio. The purpose of such an
exercise is to analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank in order to
assess its solvency, profitability, stability, and ultimately the suitability of its
capital. While these exercises are originally designed to inform regulators for
supervision purposes, they should also inform Senior Management and steer
internal decision-making.
111. The frequency of stress test exercises should depend on their type, scope, depth, and
on the wider economic context. Each bank should execute enterprise-wide stress tests based
on a set of scenarios regularly at least quarterly is recommend. Each bank should execute
portfolio-level stress tests more frequently depending on the needs of risk management and
the business functions. Market risk stress tests in particular may have to be performed more
frequently.
112. The capital impact results of these stress tests should be analysed, compared,
incorporated, and presented in the ICAAP. One or several internal enterprise-wide stress test
outcomes should be explicitly incorporated in the capital planning, and presented accordingly
in the ICAAP capital planning section. The results from all types of stress tests exercise should
be employed by Senior Management and the Board to assess the suitability of the bank’s
capital.
Scenarios
113. Stress test scenarios should be designed to capture the risks and potential losses
appropriately, in coherence with the characteristics of each bank’s risk profile and portfolio.
The scope of these scenarios should cover all the risks identified as part of the identification
process documented in the ICAAP. At a minimum, the scope of risks should cover strategic
risk, credit risk, market risk, counterparty risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, IRRBB, credit
concentration risk, funding risk, reputational risk, and climate risk.
114. Stress scenarios should lead to a reliable measurement of loss under extreme but
plausible events. Such scenarios are essential tool to support risk quantification in providing
impact on Pillar 1 and Pillar 2. Consequently, the scenario design should be supported by a
clear choice of risk factors and associated shocks. Several types of design are commonly
employed:
(i) Sensitivity analysis involve shifting the values of an individual risk factor or
several risk factors by using standardised shocks. Sensitivity analysis is
167

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
employed to estimate the P&L profile and risks to the bank from a range of
shocks. This is particularly useful to identify non-linear response in the loss
profile. For instance, this could include measuring NII with parallel shifts of +/-
50bp, +/-100bp, +/-150bp and higher shocks applied to a yield curve. It also
includes measuring expected credit loss (ECL) and capital requirements with
standard parallel shocks of +/-100bp, +/-200bp, +/-300bp applied to the PD term
structure of a given portfolio (e.g. worsening of credit spreads, adverse changes
in interest rates, other macroeconomic or idiosyncratic variables).
(ii) Scenario analysis involves measuring the combined effect of several risk
factors with shocks designed in coherence with an economic narrative affecting
the bank’s business operations simultaneously. Such narrative should be based
on an analysis of the current economic conditions, the business environment
and the operating conditions of the bank. The scope of events should be broad,
consider an appropriate range of risk types, and geographies. The narrative
should be constructed with a clear sequence of unfolding events leading to (a)
direct risks, (b) second-order risks, and/or (c) systemic risks, and how these risks
affect the profit and loss profile and risks of the bank based on a scale of shocks
(e.g. an economic recession coupled with a tightening of market liquidity and
declining asset prices). The scope of the narrative should take into account the
economic environment and the features of each portfolio in scope. The
calibration of shocks should be supported by rigorous methodologies using (a)
historical data and past events, and/or (b) forward-looking assumptions.
Practitioners refer to ‘historical scenarios’ and ‘hypothetical scenarios’.
115. Each bank is expected to continuously monitor and identify new threats, vulnerabilities
and changes in the environment to assess whether its stress testing scenarios remain
appropriate at least quarterly and, if not, adapt them to the new circumstances. The impact of
the scenarios is expected to be updated regularly (e.g. quarterly). In case of any material
changes, the bank is expected to assess their potential impact on its capital adequacy over
the course of the year.
116. If the bank forecasts the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights
issues, reduction in the equity, etc.) and the capital planning reflects the proposed changes,
the bank must perform an additional stress scenario. In these additional stress scenarios the
bank should analyse the impact under the assumption that the capital increase does not
materialise. The impact analysis should include management actions and formal trigger points.
Methodology
117. The process of stress tests should be supported by robust and documented
methodologies. All models employed in the quantification of stress results should comply with
the requirements presented in the Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance.
118. For the measurement of capital under stress, each bank should employ a dedicated
financial model to forecast their financial statements under several economic conditions. Such
projection should be constructed over a minimum of three (3) years, in coherence with the
most recent capital plan and with the Central Bank regulatory exercise.
119. Stress scenarios may be derived from stochastic models or historical events, and can
be developed with varying degrees of precision, depth, and severity, particularly the impact on
asset quality, profitability, and capital adequacy. Each bank should consider three (3) to five
(5) scenarios (each scenario can have multiple severity levels (i.e. Low, medium, and high).
Although it is expected to consider the supervisory stress tests (“stress test exercise of the
Financial Stability Department (FSD)”) as one scenario, it is the bank’s responsibility to define
scenarios and sensitivities in the manner that best addresses its situation and to translate them
168