[Document: document.pdf, Page 201]
CBUAE Classification: Public
includes specific rules for SFTs that qualify for sale treatment under the operative accounting
regime.
A degree of netting is allowed for SFTs, but only where strict criteria are met (for
example, same counterparty, same maturity date). In these cases, the net position provides
the better measure of the degree of leverage in a set of transactions between counterparties.
When a bank acts as a principal, its SFT exposure is the sum of gross SFT assets
(subject to adjustments) and a measure of counterparty credit risk calculated as the current
exposure without an add-on for potential future exposure.
For SFT assets subject to novation and cleared through QCCPs, “gross SFT assets
recognized for accounting purposes” are replaced by the final contractual exposure, that is,
the exposure to the QCCP after the process of novation has been applied, given that pre-
existing contracts have been replaced by new legal obligations through the novation process.
However, banks can only net cash receivables and cash payables with a QCCP if the
requisite criteria are met. Any other netting permitted by the QCCP is not permitted for the
purposes of the Basel III leverage ratio. Gross SFT assets recognized for accounting
purposes must not recognize any accounting netting of cash payables against cash
receivables (e.g. as currently permitted under the IFRS accounting framework). This
regulatory treatment has the benefit of avoiding inconsistencies from netting which may arise
across different accounting regimes.
Where a bank acting as an agent in an SFT does not provide an indemnity or
guarantee to any of the involved parties, the bank is not exposed to the SFT and therefore
need not recognize those SFTs in its leverage ratio exposure measure.
In situations where a bank is economically exposed beyond providing an indemnity
or guarantee for the difference between the value of the security or cash its customer has
lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided, a further exposure equal to
the full amount of the security or cash must be included in the leverage ratio exposure
measure. An example of this scenario could arise due to the bank managing collateral
received in the bank’s name or on its own account rather than on the customer’s or
borrower’s account (e.g. by on-lending or managing unsegregated collateral, cash or
securities). However, this does not apply to client omnibus accounts that are used by agent
lenders to hold and manage client collateral provided that client collateral is segregated from
the bank’s proprietary assets and the bank calculates the exposure on a client-by-client
basis.
g. Off-Balance Sheet Items
OBS items arise from such transactions as credit and liquidity commitments,
guarantees and standby letters of credit. The amount that is included in the exposure
measure is determined by multiplying the notional amount of an OBS item by the relevant
credit conversion factor (CCF) from the Central Bank’s Standards for Leverage Ratio.
The off-balance-sheet exposure measure will be calculated using credit equivalent
values. This reflects the fact that the degree of leverage in these transactions is not the same
as if banks had made fully funded loans. That is, a 100% credit conversion factor (CCF)
overestimates leverage. The use of standardised CCFs retains a consistent and
conservative treatment that is not dependent on the risk of the bank’s counterparty.
Where there is an undertaking to provide a commitment on an off-balance-sheet item,
banks are to apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs. For example:
 If a bank has a commitment to open short-term self-liquidating trade letters of credit
arising from the movement of goods, a 20% CCF will apply, instead of a 40% CCF;
and
199

[Document: document.pdf, Page 202]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 If a bank has an unconditionally cancellable commitment to issue direct credit
substitutes, a 10% CCF will apply, instead of a 100% CCF.
III. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: Is the starting point for the leverage ratio exposure calculation total on-
balance-sheet assets as reported in the financial statements?
Yes, total assets are the correct starting point, with adjustments as specified in the
Standards, and with additions for off-balance-sheet exposure as required under the
Standards.
Question 2: Should aspects of derivatives exposures or SFT exposures that are on
the balance sheet be included as part of on-balance-sheet exposure, or as part of
derivatives or SFT exposure?
Certain exposures related to derivatives may appear on the balance sheet; the same is true
for SFTs. Those exposures related to derivatives or SFTs should be excluded from the on-
balance-sheet component of the leverage ratio exposure calculation, and instead included
with either derivatives exposure or SFT exposure, as appropriate.
Question 3: Why is collateral on the bank’s balance sheet part of the exposure
measure for the leverage ratio calculation?
The leverage ratio framework as developed by the Basel Committee treats all assets on a
bank’s balance sheet as creating equal risk. If the bank holds collateral on its balance sheet,
the collateral is an asset of the bank, and changes in the value of that collateral affect the
bank’s total assets and capital. In this sense, the leverage ratio calculation treats collateral
as an additional source of risk exposure to the bank, even though the purpose of taking the
collateral may be credit risk mitigation. The leverage ratio treats most types of secured
exposures the same way, on a gross basis without taking into account the effects of
collateral.
Question 4: Is the calculation of counterparty credit risk exposure the same as the
calculation used in the SA-CCR standards of the Central Bank?