[Document: PI.pdf, Page 31]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Credit Risk Standard are applied to the collateral because collateral is subject to risk, which could
reduce the realisation value of the collateral when liquidated.
If the exposure and collateral are held in different currencies, the bank must adjust
downwards the volatility- adjusted collateral amount to take into account possible future
fluctuations in exchange rates.
There is no distinction for applying supervisory haircuts between main index equities and
equities listed at a recognised exchange. A 25% haircut applies to all equities.
Capital Add-on under Pillar 2
While the use of CRM techniques reduces or transfers credit risk, it gives rise to other
risksthat need to be adequately controlled and managed. Banks should take all appropriate steps
to ensure the effectiveness of the CRM and to address related risks. Where these risks are not
adequately controlled, the Central Bank may impose additional capital charges or take other
supervisory actions as outlined in Pillar 2 Standard.
III. Shari’ah Implementation
Banks that conduct all or part of their activities in accordance with the provisions of
Shari’ah laws and have exposure to risks similar to those mentioned in the Credit Risk Standard,
shall, for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate level of capital, calculate the relevant risk
weighted asset in line with these guidelines. This must be done in a manner compliant with the
Shari’ah laws.
This is applicable until relevant standards and/or guidelines in respect of these
transactions are issued specifically for banks offering Islamic financial services.
IV. Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
During the industry consultation the Central Bank received a number of questions related to
the Credit Risk Standard and Guidance. To ensure consistent implementation of the Credit
Risk Standard in the UAE, the main questions are addressed hereunder.
Claims on Sovereigns
Question 1: What does the 7-year transition for USD exposure to the Federal Government
and Emirates Government mean for banks?
During the 7-year transition period, banks are required to have a forward looking plan on USD
exposures to Federal and Emirate governments. Banks shall monitor and manage the impact of
the change in risk weights of exposures in USD on the bank’s capital position. Exposures in USD
as well as the banks’ capital plans will be monitored by the Central Bank.
Question 2: What is the appropriate risk weight for exposures to other GCC sovereigns?
A 0% risk weight is applied to GCC Sovereign exposures denominated and funded in the domestic
currency of their country. However, exposures in non-domestic currencies (including USD) shall
be risk weighted according to the rating of sovereigns.
Question 3: Does the Central Bank allow banks to apply unsolicited ratings in the same
32

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 32]
CBUAE Classification: Public
way as solicited ratings?
Bank should use ratings determined by an eligible External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAIs).
Only solicited ratings are allowed to be used. The Central Bank only allows unsolicited ratings
from an eligible ECAI for the UAE federal government. All other exposures shall be risk weighted
using solicited ratings.
Claims on Non-Commercial Public Sector Enterprises
Question 4: Can the bank include claims on a GCC PSE denominated in their local currency
under claims of Non-Commercial PSEs?
No, the preferential risk weights for Non-Commercial PSEs are only granted for UAE entities.
Question 5: Do all the seven criteria stated in the credit risk guidance have to be met or
any of the criterion can be met to classify an entity as non-commercial PSE? In addition,
does the bank just follow the so-called GRE list or shall the bank apply the criteria to
classify entities as non-commercial PSE?
To classify entities as Non-commercial PSE, the Central Bank will consider in its approval process
all seven criteria and in principle all seven criteria must be satisfied. A bank may approach the
Central Bank, if the bank thinks that certain entities satisfy the criteria for a Non-commercial PSE
that can be added to the GRE list. If banks have information that would lead to changes to of the
GRE List, banks should inform the Central Bank accordingly.
Question 6: The guidance requires that the bank’s internal audit/ compliance departments
perform regular reviews to ensure the PSE and GRE classification complies with the
Central Bank's GRE list. What is the expected frequency of such a review?
The frequency of internal audit/compliance should be commensurate with the bank's size, the
nature and risks of bank’s operations and the complexity of the bank.
Claims on Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs)
Question 7: Does an MDB need to satisfy all of the stated criteria or any one of the criteria
to apply a 0% risk-weight?
Exposures to MDBs may receive a risk weight of 0% if they fulfill all five criteria. However, the
Central Bank does not decide whether an MDB satisfies the criteria or not. The Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision (BCBS) evaluates each MDB’s eligibility for inclusion in the list of 0% RW
on a case-by-case basis.
Claims on Banks
Question 8: For claims on an unrated bank, can the bank apply the preferential rating as
per risk weight table for short-term exposures?
A risk weight of 50% for long term exposures and 20% for short term exposures are applied to
claims on unrated banks. However, no claim on an unrated bank may receive a risk weight lower
than the risk weight applied to claims on its sovereign of incorporation, irrespectively of the
exposure being short-term or long-term.
Claims on Corporates
Question 9: Should loans to High Net Worth Individuals (HNIs) be reported under claims in
regulatory retail portfolio or claims on corporate?
33

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 33]
CBUAE Classification: Public
No, HNI classification should be aligned with the BRF explanatory note and should be reported
under claims on corporate.
Question 10: What is the treatment for SMEs and in which asset class are SME exposures
reported?
Answer: Banks have to follow BRF explanatory note 6.21 for the definition of SME. Exposures
classified as SME according to BRF explanatory note, are for capital adequacy reporting purposes
classified as “Retail SME” and “corporate SME”. SME exposures fulfilling all of four retail criteria
as stated in Section III G of the Credit Risk Standard are reported under “claims on retail”. SME
that do not fulfill the retail criteria are treated under claims on corporates as per Section III F of
the Credit Risk Standard.
Claims secured by Residential Property
Question 11: Does the bank have to assign 100% RW for customers with more than 4
properties?
Yes, if a customer has more than 4 properties, a bank has to report all properties of that customer
as claims on commercial properties and the risk weight of the properties shall be 100%.
Question 12: Can the bank apply a preferential RW of 35% for properties under
construction?
No, the preferential risk weight of 35% applies only to completed properties, as under
construction, residential properties incur higher risks than buying completed properties.
Claims Secured by Commercial Real Estate
Question 13: Do loans with a collateral of a completed commercial property, irrespective
of their purpose, fall under Claims secured by Commercial Real Estate?
No, this asset class is for exposures specifically for the purpose of buying/ constructing
commercial property, i.e. real estate loans.
Higher-risk Categories
Question 14: What type of exposure would fall under higher risk categories? What is the
appropriate RW for higher risk categories?
Almost all the exposures that receive 150% risk weight are reported under the respective asset
class. The Central Bank will apply a 150% or higher risk weight, reflecting the higher risks
associated with assets that require separate disclosure. For example, but not limited to, real estate
acquired in settlement of debt and not liquidated within the statutory period shall be reported under
the higher risk asset class with a 150% RW.
Other Assets
Question 15: The Credit Risk Standard states in section 5, that equity investment in
commercial entities that are below the thresholds shall be risk weighted at 150% if the
entity is unlisted. However, if the banking group has full control over the commercial
subsidiary, can a lower risk weight be applied?
A 150% risk weight reflects the additional risk the commercial subsidiary underpins on unlisted
equity (absence of regulatory requirement, illiquidity, etc.) exposures than listed equity exposures.
34

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 34]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Issuer and Issuance Rating
Question 16: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond?
The bank must classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and
assign risk weight based on the rating of the entity.
Question 17: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a bond
with a guarantee by the sovereign specific to the issuance and the bond gets a higher
rating than the entity itself?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign risk weight
based on the rating of the bond.
Question 18: What will be the treatment of a rated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a bond
with a lower rating than entity?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign risk weight
based on the rating of the bond.
Question 19: What will be the treatment if an unrated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond (unrated), but the bond has the guarantee from sovereign, specific and direct
guarantee?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign the risk
weight based on the bond rating (unrated). The guarantee should be used for credit risk mitigation
by substituting the risk weight of the bond using the claims on sovereign mapping table (e.g. AAA
- 0% risk weight).
Question 20: What will be the treatment if an unrated entity (e.g. corporate) that issues a
bond with a guarantee given by the sovereign to the entity (and not the bond)?
Classify the bond based on the entity classification (Claim on Corporate) and assign the risk
weight related to the unrated entity. The guarantee should be used for credit risk mitigation by
substituting the risk weight of the bond using the claims on corporate mapping table (e.g. AAA -
20% risk weight).
Off Balance-sheet Items
Question 22: The Credit Risk Standards states that, “Any commitments that are
unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank without prior notice, or that effectively
provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s creditworthiness
must be converted into credit exposure equivalents using CCF of 0%”. For using CCF of
0%, please provide explanation on being cancellable at any time without prior notice.
Majority of the unconditionally cancellable commitments are subject to certain contractual
conditions, which in practice may not render them as unconditionally cancelled and thereby do
not qualify them for 0% CCF, implying that all the off-balancesheet items bear a risk to the bank.
Bank shall conduct a formal review of the commitments at regular intervals to ensure that
commitments can be cancelled from a legal and practical perspective.
Credit Risk Mitigation
Question 23: Is an approval required from the Central Bank to switch between the simple
and comprehensive approach for Credit Risk Mitigation techniques? For a bank that
35

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 35]
CBUAE Classification: Public
applies the comprehensive approach, is an approval required to go back to the simple
approach?
A bank that intends to apply the comprehensive approach requires prior approval from the Central
Bank. Once approved and if the bank wishes to go back to simple approach, a bank requiresthe
Central Bank's approval again to go to the simple approach.
V. Appendix: Computation of Exposures with Credit Risk Mitigation Effects
Bank A repos out cash of AED 1000 to a corporate with an external rating of AA. The corporate
provides collateral in the form of debt securities issued by a bank with an external rating of
AA. The debt securities have a remaining maturity of 7 years and a market value of AED 990.
Minimum holding period for various products
Transaction type Minimum holding period Condition
Repo-style transaction 5 Business days Daily remargining
Other capital market transactions 10 Business days Daily remargining
Secured lending 20 Business days Daily revaluation
Thehaircut for the transaction with other than 10 business days minimum holding
period, as indicated above, will have to be adjusted by scaling up or down the haircut for
10 business days as per the formula given below:
NR+(TM−1)
H=HM√
𝑇M
Variables Details of the Variables Supervisory haircuts Scaling Adjusted haircuts
factor
He Haircut appropriate to the Exposure in the form of cash, 0 Not applicable
underlying exposure supervisory haircut 0%
Hc Haircut appropriate to the Debt securities issued by a 0.71 Supervisory haircut
Collateral bank (8%)* Scaling factor
supervisory haircut 8% (0.71 )= 6%
Hfx Haircut appropriate for No Currency Mismatch 0 Not applicable
Currency Mismatch
Theexposure amount after risk mitigation is calculated as follows:
Variables E*= max {0, [E x (1 + He) – C x (1 – Hc – Hfx)]} Value
E* Net credit exposure (i.e. exposure value after CRM) 69.4
E Principal Amount, which is net of specific provisions, if any 1000
For off-balance sheet, it is the credit equivalent amount