
capital methodologies. The analysis should include a robust and conservative forecast of
operational risk losses and respective capital requirements (at least split into conduct and non-
conduct risks).
75. Legal risk is considered an operational risk. Each bank is required to analyse, assess,
and quantify the impact of legal risk failures on its capital structure. Examples of legal risk
include inadequate documentation, legal, regulatory incapacity, the insufficient authority of a
counterparty, and contract invalidity/ unenforceability. The Legal department of each bank bear
responsibility for the identification and management of this risk. They must consult with internal
and external legal counsel. Subsidiaries and branches of major international banking groups
typically have in-house legal departments, acting under the guidance of the group, which aims
to facilitate the business of the group, by providing proactive, business-oriented advice. The
outcome of legal and/or regulatory issues to which the bank is currently exposed, and others,
which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict and, consequently, there can be no
assurance that the outcome of a legal matters will not be material to the financial condition of
the bank.
76. Given the potential impact from operational risk, each bank should evaluate under
Pillar 2 risks arising from business conduct risks and money laundering / financing of terrorism.
In addition, each bank should consider internal and external operational risks faced by it,
including but not limited to operational cyber risk, IT risks, and outsourcing, and each bank is
expected to consider ways in which it can improve its operational resilience. Each bank should
provide details in the ICAAP report on the outcome of its Risk Control Self-Assessment (RCSA)
process to collate bottom-up operational risk drivers across businesses.
77. Each bank should undertake quantitative stress testing based on its historical loss data
and operational risk profile.
E. Credit Concentration Risk
78. Section V.D of the ICAAP Standard requires banks to address weaknesses at the
161

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 14]
CBUAE Classification: Public
portfolio level including credit concentrations risk. Credit concentration risk is the incremental
credit loss in a portfolio of credit exposures, caused by high correlation between the credit risk
drivers of those exposures. Such concentration risk arises mostly due to high correlations and
dependencies between individual obligors (name concentration) or between economic sectors
(sectoral concentration). Credit concentration risk can affect a bank’s health or core operations,
liquidity, earnings and capital ratios. The Central Bank considers concentration risk as a key
material Pillar 2 risk for all UAE banks.
79. Consequently, credit concentration arises when large exposures are associated with a
small number of obligors or a small number of sectors, but not only. Credit concentration risk
can arise from a seemingly granular portfolio but with high correlation between the obligors’
risk drivers.
80. In accordance with the Central Bank re Large Exposures - Credit Concentrations Limits
(Notice No.226/2018), an exposure is deemed large if it accounts for more than 10% of a
bank’s capital. Such threshold has been implemented for regulatory purposes. The
measurement of concentration risk for risk management purposes and for determining Pillar 2
risk capital requirements should refer to the wider definition of concentration risk. Each bank
is exposed to a degree of concentration risk, even when complying with the Large Exposure
Regulation.
81. Each bank should perform a detailedrisk analysis specific to the Real Estate exposures
(RE) of the bank and the Central Bank re Standards for Real Estate Exposures (Notice No.
5733/2021).
82. Credit concentration risk is a common feature of UAE banks, but currently the Central
Bank regulations for banks do not include an explicit Pillar 1 capital requirement for name and
sector concentration risk. Credit concentration risk is a key prudential risk for which the capital
requirement is at the discretion of banks, and it should be held under Pillar 2. This risk should
warrant particular attention from each bank. In particular:
(i) For the purpose of risk management, each bank should ensure that credit
concentration risk is pro-actively and efficiently addressed. Each bank should
develop policies and procedures for the identification, measurement, monitoring,
and reporting of credit concentration risk. Credit concentration risk arises from
exposures to obligors structured as conglomerates. Therefore each bank should
have a mechanism in place to identify and aggregate exposures across related
entities based on their legal relationships. Data should be aggregated across
systems operated by different business units or entities. This should be indicated
through the bank’s management information system (MIS);
(ii) For the purpose of estimating the Pillar 2 capital associated with credit
concentration risk, each bank should build upon the methodologies employed
for risk management. These methods should be developed further, as deemed
appropriate, in order to fully measure the additional capital. Each bank should
compare several methodologies and propose a choice based on clear and
documented justification. At a minimum, each bank should calculate and report
the additional capital using the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) methodology;
and
(iii) For the purpose of capital planning, each bank should ensure that concentration
risk is taken into account adequately within its ICAAP. Each bank should assess
the amount of capital, which it consider adequate to hold given the level of
concentration risk in their portfolios and given their business plan and the
expected economic environment.
162

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 15]
CBUAE Classification: Public
F. Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB)
83. IRRBB is the risk of loss in the banking book caused by changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk can arise both in the banking book and/or the trading book. While interest rate
risk in the trading book is addressed under the Pillar 1 market risk framework, the interest rate
risk in the banking book should be addressed under Pillar 2. Conventional banks refer to this
risk as IRRBB while Islamic banks are exposed to the analogous risk called profit rate risk in
the banking book (PRRBB).
84. Each bank should define a risk appetite pertaining to IRRRB that should be approved
by the Board and implemented through a comprehensive risk appetite framework, i.e. policies
and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB. Each bank should have a process
supported by adequate policies to manage IRRBB appropriately.This involves, as for any other
risk, comprehensive identification, measurement, reporting, monitoring, and mitigation.
85. The measurement process should be based upon several existing Standards and
Guidance:
(i) Central Bank “Standards re Capital Adequacy of Banks in the UAE - ICAAP
Standards”;
(ii) Central Bank “Regulation and Standards re Interest Rate & Rate of Return Risk
in the Banking Book” in 2018 (Notice 3021/2018 and Circular 165/2018);
(iii) Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance in 2022 (Notice
5052/2022); and
(iv) Basel Framework - Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (SRP 31).
Measurement
86. The assessment should include all positions of each bank’s potential basis risk, re-
pricing gaps, commercial margins, gaps for material currencies optionality, and non-maturing
deposits. The quantitative impact analysis should be supported by description and analysis of
the key assumptions made by the bank, in particular, assumptions regarding loan
prepayments, the behaviour of non-maturity deposits (CASA), non-rated sensitive assets,
contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable-rate items, and measuring the
frequency of the interest rate risk in the banking book.
87. DSIBs and other banks with significant interest rate risk (IRR) exposure should
compute the economic value of equity (EVE) at a granular facility level, while non-DSIBs may
compute EVE at exposure level, which is based upon the summation of discounted gap risk
across time buckets, rather than a granular net present value (NPV) estimation at exposure
level.
Scenarios
88. For the purpose of capital calibration, each bank should employ the interest rate shock
scenarios corresponding to Table 12 of Central Bank Model Management Guidance and table
2 of the SRP 31 for their AED and non-AED positions respectively.
89. In addition to the standard shocks prescribed above, DSIBs and other banks with
significant exposure to interest rate risk are expected to apply further shocks/ idiosyncratic
scenarios, which will takeinto account:
 The bank’s inherent risk profile;
163

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 16 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Historical shocks experienced by the bank due to market sentiment and
corresponding to macro-financial factors; and
 Additional scenarios prescribed by the Central Bank specifically through
supervisory interactions or financial stability processes.
Capital Calculation
90. The capital requirement should be aggregated across all currencies and scenarios
conservatively.
91. The estimation of the Pillar 2 capital corresponding to IRRBB should be based on the
most conservative loss arising from (i) the change in the economic value of equity (ΔEVE), and
(ii) the change in net interest income (ΔNII). The most conservative result should be considered
across all the scenarios calibrated by the bank. (In avoidance of doubt, the allocated capital
for IRRBB should not be lower than the maximum of the absolute EVE impact and the absolute
NII impact: Max(abs(EVE impact), abs(NII impact).
92. The Central Bank considers a bank as an outlier when the IRRBB EVE impact based
on the standard parallel shock leads to an economic value decline of more than 15% of its Tier
1 capital. The Central Bank may request an outlier bank to:
(i) Reduce its IRRBB exposures (e.g. by hedging);
(ii) Raise additional capital;
(iii) Set constraints on the internal risk parameters used by a bank; and/ or
(iv) Improve its risk managementframework.
93. Irrespective of the approach or model chosen by the bank, at a minimum each bank
should calculate and report IRRBB using the methodology described by the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
G. Model Risk
94. Models have become an integral part of decision-making in the banking sector for risk
management, business decisions, and accounting. Inaccurate model results, e.g. based on
wrong assumptions or valuations, may lead to actual or potential financial losses or an
underestimation of risks. Therefore, the Central Bank considers model risk a significant risk
type.
95. Simple models should not be confused with poorly designed models. Poorly designed
models can be misleading and interfere with sound decision-making. Small and/or
unsophisticated banks can employ simple models. However, they cannot employ poorly
designed models. Each bank should manage model risk in accordance to the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
96. Model risk should be incorporated in each banks’ risk framework alongside other key
risks, as inherent consequences of conducting their activities (refer to Appendix 3.2).
Consequently, model risk should be managed through a formal process incorporating the
bank’s appetite for model uncertainty. The framework should be designed to identify, measure,
monitor, and mitigate this risk. A bank should mitigate a large appetite for model risk by
counter-measures such as conservative buffers on model results and/ or additional allocated
Pillar 2 capital.
164