
determine the risk weights must meet the requirements stated in the Standards, including
sufficiency, frequency, and third party review. However, that information is not required to be
derived from sources that are subject to an external audit.
RWA and assets of investment funds should, to the extent possible, be evaluated using
the same accounting standards the bank would apply if the assets were held directly. However,
where this is not possible due to constraints on available information, the evaluation can be based
on the accounting standards applied by the investment fund, provided the treatment of the
numerator (RWA) and the denominator (total unweighted assets) is consistent.
If a bank relies on third-party calculations for determining the underlying risk weights of
the exposures of the fund, the risk weights should be increased by a factor of 1.2 times to
compensate for the fact that the bank cannot be certain about the accuracy of third-party
information. For instance, any exposure that is ordinarily subject to a 20% risk weight under the
risk-based capital standards would be weighted at 24% (1.2×20%) when the look-through is
performed by a third party.
D. Mandate-Based Approach
Under the MBA, banks may use the information contained in a fund’s mandate, or in the
rules or regulations governing such investment funds in the relevant jurisdiction. Information used
for this purpose is not strictly limited to a fund’s mandate or to national regulations or other
requirements that govern such funds. For example, a bank could obtain information from the
fund’s prospectus or from other disclosures of the fund.
To ensure that all underlying risks are taken into account (including CCR) and that the
MBA renders capital requirements no less than the LTA, the Standards requires that risk-weighted
assets for funds’ exposures be calculated as the sum of three items:
 On-balance-sheet exposures;
 Off-balance-sheet exposures including notional value of derivatives exposures; and
 CCR exposure for derivatives.
84

[Document: document.pdf, Page 87]
CBUAE Classification: Public
As with the LTA, for purposes of the MBA the RWA and assets of investment funds should,
to the extent possible, be evaluated using the same accounting standards the bank would apply
if the assets were held directly. However, where this is not possible due to constraints on available
information, the evaluation can be based on the accounting standards applied by the investment
fund, provided the treatment of the numerator (RWA) and the denominator (total unweighted
assets) is consistent.
In general, the MBA aims to take a conservative approach by calculating the highest risk-
weighted assets the fund could achieve under the terms of its mandate or governing laws and
regulations. Under the MBA, the bank should assume that the fund’s assets are first invested to
the maximum extent allowable in assets that would attract the highest risk weight, and then to the
maximum extent allowable in the next riskiest type of asset, and so on until all of the fund’s
balance sheet assets have been assigned to a risk-weight category. If more than one risk weight
could be applied to a given exposure, the bank must use the maximum applicable risk weight. For
example, if the mandate does not place restrictions on the rating quality of the fund’s investments
in corporate bonds, the bank should apply a risk weight of 150% to the fund’s corporate bond
positions.
For derivatives, when the replacement cost is unknown, the Standards takes a
conservative approach by setting replacement cost equal to the notional amount of the derivatives
contracts. When the notional amount of a fund’s derivative exposure is unknown, the approach
again is conservative: the bank should use the maximum notional amount of derivatives allowed
under the fund’s mandate. When the PFE for derivatives is unknown, the PFE add-on should be
set at 15% of the notional value. Thus, if the replacement cost and PFE add-on both are unknown,
a total multiplication factor of 1.15 must be applied to the notional amount to reflect the CCR
exposure.
Instead of determining a CVA charge associated with the fund’s derivative exposures, the
Standards allows banks to multiply the CCR exposure by a factor of 1.5 before applying the risk
weight associated with the counterparty. However, a bank is not required to apply the 1.5 factor
for situations in which the CVA capital charge would not otherwise be applicable. Notably, this
includes derivative transactions for which the direct counterparty is a qualifying central
counterparty.
E. Leverage Adjustment
A leverage adjustment is applied to the average risk weight of the fund under either the
LTA or the MBA. A similar leverage adjustment is not necessary for the FBA, because the risk
weight of 1250% applied under the FBA to equity investments in funds is fixed at that maximum
value.
When determining the leverage adjustment under the MBA, banks are required to make
conservative assumptions using information from the fund’s mandate. Specifically, the Standards
requires that banks assume the fund will use financial leverage up to the maximum amount
permitted under the fund’s mandate, or up to the maximum permitted under the regulations
governing that fund. This maximum may be significantly greater than the actual leverage for the
fund at any point in time.
85

[Document: document.pdf, Page 88]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: BCBS 266 states “Equity holdings in entities whose debt obligations qualify
for a zero risk weight can be excluded from the LTA, MBA and FBA approaches (including
those publicly sponsored entities where a zero risk weight can be applied), at the
discretion of the national supervisor.” Are such equity holdings excluded under the
Central Bank’s Standards?
No, the Central Bank of the UAE has chosen not to adopt this point of national discretion. Bank
investments in such funds are subject to the requirements of the Standards.
Question 2: If a bank makes a “seed capital investment” in a fund that is out of scope of
consolidation, and is considered a significant investment in the common shares of a
banking, financial, or insurance entity, is it within scope as an equity investment in a fund?
If the investment is one that the bank would be required to deduct from capital, then the investment
is not in scope for this Standards.
Question 3: If a bank makes a “seed capital investment” in a fund, and that fund is managed
by a Fund Manager hired by the bank, is the investment considered to be a direct investment
in the fund, or indirect?
Assuming that the fund in question is not consolidated into the bank under accounting rules for
financial reporting, such an investment is considered a direct investment under the Standards.
Question 4: Under the Standards, what methodology should a bank use to compute
counterparty credit risk exposure for funds in which the bank has an equity investment?
The Standards states that banks must risk weight all exposures as if the bank held those
exposures directly. Thus, the risk weights and the exposure amounts for counterparty credit risk
should be determined using the standards that would apply to the bank. For banks in the UAE,
the applicable standards for counterparty credit risk is the Central Bank’s Standards for
Counterparty Credit Risk Capital, which reflects the Standardised Approach to Counterparty
Credit Risk (SA-CCR).
Question 5: If a bank relies on a third-party information provider for information used to
calculate the leverage adjustment for a fund, does the 1.2 multiplication factor apply?
No, as the Standards states, the factor of 1.2 applies when the bank relies on a third party for the
risk weights of the underlying exposures. This is a conservative adjustment to recognize the
uncertainty associated with such information about risk weights. It does not apply to the leverage
ratio calculation.
Question 6: The FBA applies a risk weight of 1250%, which is significantly higher than the
current risk weights of 100% or 150% that apply to equity investments in funds under
previous capital requirements. Should this risk weight be lower?
The risk weight of 1250% is aligned with international capital standards as developed by the Basel
Committee, and is being adopted by the Central Bank under this Standards. Considering the
higher minimum capital requirements in the UAE (10.5% vs 8%), the final risk weight is capped at
952%.
Question 7: What happens when the bank has mandated intermediaries to invest in fixed
income? Would this investment be included or excluded in the calculation of Equity
Investments?
86

[Document: document.pdf, Page 89]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Banks having mandated Intermediaries have to go through same framework approach. This
means that if the bank has information for these intermediaries, the bank may use the LTA
approach. If the bank does not have information, then it has to use the MBA or FBA approach.
Question 8: The EIF standards allows for partial use of approaches for reporting EIF and
the RWA calculations from each applied approach are summed, and then divided by total
fund assets to compute “Avg RWfund”. Should the leverage of the fund be proportioned
according to use of approach?
No, the leverage ratio is a single number that applies to the entire fund. When a bank uses more
than one approach to determine the risk weight (that is, LTA, MBA, and/or FBA), the bank should
report the amounts on separate lines in the reporting template.
87

[Document: document.pdf, Page 90]
CBUAE Classification: Public
IV. Example Calculations
A. Example of calculation of risk-weighted assets using the LTA
Consider a fund that aims to replicate an equity index using a strategy based on forward
contracts. Assume the fund holds short-term forward contracts for this purpose with a notional
amount of 100 that are cleared through a qualifying central counterparty. Further, assume that
the fund’s financial position can be represented by the following T-account balance sheet:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 20 Notes payable 5
Government bonds (AAA) 30
Variation margin receivable
on forward contracts 50 Equity 95
100 100
Finally, assume that the bank’s equity investment in the fund comprises 20% of the shares of the
fund, and therefore is 20% × 95 = 19.
Using the LTA, the fund’s balance sheet exposures of 100 are risk weighted according to the risk
weights that would be applied to these assets by the bank. For cash, the risk weight is 0%; for the
government bonds, the risk weight is also 0%. The margin receivable is an exposure to a
qualifying CCP, which has 2% risk weight. The underlying risk weight for equity exposures (100%)
is applied to the notional amount of the forward contracts.
Assume that the bank is able to determine that the amount of the CCR exposure to the CCP is
10, which then receives the 2% risk weight for exposures to a qualifying CCP. Note that there is
no CVA charge because the forward contracts are cleared through the qualifying CCP.
The total RWA for the fund is:
20×0% + 30×0% + 50×2% + 100×100% + 10×2% = 101.2
Given the total assets of the fund of 100, the average risk-weight for the fund is:
Avg RW = 101.2 / 100 = 101.2%
fund
With fund assets of 100 and fund equity of 95, leverage is calculated as the assets-to-equity ratio,
or 100/95≈1.05. Therefore, the risk-weight for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is:
Risk Weight = 101.2% × (100/95) = 106.5%
Applying this risk weight to the bank’s equity investment in the fund of 19, the bank’s RWA on the
position for the purpose of calculating minimum required capital is 106.5% × 19 = 20.24.
B. Example of calculation of risk-weighted assets using the MBA
Consider a fund with current balance-sheet assets of 100, and assume that the bank is
unable to apply the LTA due to a lack of adequate information. Suppose that the fund’s mandate
states that the fund’s investment objective is to replicate an equity index. In addition to being
88