
consistent with international standards, subject to possible adjustments to take into
account local practices or institutional or market conditions;
(v) The rating methodology for each market segment, including rigorous back testing,
must have been established for at least one year and preferably three years;
(vi) All rating decisions should be made based on the ECAI’s established criteria and
methodologies, subject to documented variations approved in accordance with the
ECAI’s procedures;
(vii) The ECAI should have a mechanism to review its procedures and methodologies to
adapt them to a potentially changing environment; and
(viii) The ECAI should maintain adequate systems and internal records to support its
assigned ratings.
B. Independence
6. The ECAI should be free from any economic or external political pressures that may
influence its credit ratings. In particular, an ECAI should not delay or refrain from taking a rating
action based on its potential effect (economic, political or otherwise). The independence of an
ECAI shall be assessed on the basis of the following five parameters:
(i) Ownership: The ownership structure should not be such that it could jeopardize the
objectivity of the rating process. For example, the owners should not hold 10 percent
or more of the equity of any entity rated by the ECAI.
(ii) Organizational Structure and Corporate Governance: The ECAI should
demonstrate that its organizational structure minimizes the scope for external
influences to influence the rating process inappropriately. The ECAI should have in
place effective corporate governance that safeguards the independence of its credit
ratings, promotes integrity, and ensures that internal disagreements over ratings are
resolved in ways that do not compromise the overall effectiveness of the rating
process.
(iii) Financial Resources: The ECAI must demonstrate that its business is financially
viable and is able to sustain any commercial pressure that might be exerted by
external entities, including the entities being rated. The ECAI’s financial position
should not depend significantly on the provision of other services to the rated entities.
(iv) External Conflict of Interest: The credit rating process of the ECAI should have the
ability to withstand external pressures. The ECAI should demonstrate that it is free
from any type of external conflicts of interest, or that conflicts of interest are disclosed
and managed.
(v) Separation: An ECAI should separate its rating business operationally, legally, and
if practicable, physically from its other business operations that may present a
conflict of interest, such as advisory services.
140

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 140]
CBUAE Classification: Public
C. International Access and Transparency
7. The individual ratings, the key elements underlying the ratings, and whether the issuer
participated in the rating process should be information that is publicly available on a non-selective
basis.
8. In order to promote transparency and enable stakeholders to make decisions about the
appropriateness of its credit rating methods, an ECAI should disclose sufficient information (e.g.,
rating definition, methods of arriving at the rating, rating process, time horizon of the rating, and
the surveillance and review procedure) to facilitate such decisions. The ECAI’s general
procedures, methodologies, and assumptions for arriving at ratings should be publicly available.
D. Disclosure
9. A rating should be disclosed as soon as practicably possible after issuance. When
disclosing a rating, the information should be clearly worded, and should indicate the nature of
the rating and relevant limitations, while providing appropriate warning to users of the potential
danger of unduly relying on the rating to make investment or other decisions.
10. To promote transparency and market discipline, an ECAI should demonstrate that it
provides access to information that enables stakeholders to make decisions about the
appropriateness of ratings for the intended use or uses. At a minimum, the ECAI is expected to
make public the following information:
 Code of conduct;
 Definition of default;
 The time horizons reflected in ratings;
 Rating definitions;
 Rating methods;
 Actual default rates experienced in each rating category;
 Rating transition matrices;
 Whether particular ratings are solicited or unsolicited;
 The date of last review and update of ratings;
 The general nature of compensation arrangements with rated entities; and
 Any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
11. At a minimum, the following conflict-of-interest situations and their influence on the ECAI’s
credit rating methodologies or credit rating actions must be disclosed:
(i) The ECAI is being paid to issue a credit rating by a rated entity or by the obligor,
originator, underwriter, or arranger of a rated obligation;
(ii) The ECAI is being paid by subscribers with a financial interest that could be affected
by a credit rating action of the ECAI;
141

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 141 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The ECAI is being paid by rated entities, obligors, originators, underwriters,
arrangers, or subscribers for services other than issuing credit ratings or providing
access to the ECAI’s credit ratings;
(iv) The ECAI is providing a preliminary indication or similar indication of credit quality to
an entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger prior to being hired to determine
the final credit rating for the entity, obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger; and
(v) The ECAI has a direct or indirect ownership interest in a rated entity or obligor, or a
rated entity or obligor has a direct or indirect ownership interest in the ECAI.
12. An ECAI should disclose the general nature of its compensation arrangements with rated
entities, obligors, lead underwriters, or arrangers. When the ECAI receives compensation
unrelated to its credit rating services from a party such as a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead
underwriter, or arranger, the ECAI should disclose such compensation as a percentage of the
total annual compensation received from that party in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate. An ECAI should disclose in the relevant credit rating report or
elsewhere, as appropriate, if it receives 10% or more of its annual revenue from a single party
(e.g., a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead underwriter, arranger, or subscriber, or any of their
affiliates).
E. Resources
13. ECAI should possess sufficient human and technical resources to produce high quality
credit ratings. Evidence of resource sufficiency includes:
(i) Technical expertise of the people should be sufficient to conduct the analysis to
support the assignment of ratings, and to maintain contact with senior and
operational levels within the entities that are rated. In particular, ECAIs should assign
analysts with appropriate knowledge and experience to assess the creditworthiness
of the type of entity or obligation being rated; and
(ii) With respect to technical resources, an ECAI is expected to apply quantitative
techniques and models that can appropriately process and analyze the quantities of
data required to support the rating process.
F. Credibility
14. The ECAI must demonstrate that it enjoys credibility in the markets in which it operates.
Such credibility is gauged on the basis of:
(i) The extent to which it meets the resources requirements stated above;
(ii) The extent to which independent parties (investors, insurers etc.) rely on the ECAI’s
risk ratings; and
(iii) The existence of internal procedures to preventmisuse of confidential information.
142