
Comments: The narrative fails to describe the depository LFI’s relationship with the subject and include
additional identifying details about the subject (name, occupation, address, account number, etc.). The
narrative template also does not identify the terrorist group, describe the customer’s relationship with the
terrorist group, the timeframe for the customer’s involvement with the terrorist group, and how the LFI
became aware of this association, such as a hyperlink to the adverse media report.
Example 8:
 Mrs. ABC purchased an insurance product using unusual payment methods. Mrs. ABC is a teacher
at Happy Day Elementary School in Dubai and resides at 11111 Street Name, Dubai, UAE. Mrs.
ABC also has two motor vehicles insured with the LFI since April 2019.
Comments: The narrative fails to describe the type of insurance product purchased, on what date, with
what payment method, and why the institution considers this payment method unusual. The institution also
does not indicate the customer’s stated purpose for purchasing the insurance product and if this is line with
what the LFI knows about the customer.
Example 9:
 Mr. XYZ requests to increase payments on his life insurance policy during the period from 02-01-
21 to 05-01-21, and the payments appear to be excessive, given Mr. XYZ’s prior history.
Comments: The narrative fails to include additional identifying details about the subject (name, occupation,
address, etc.). The narrative lacks specific transaction data that identifies the dates, amounts, and method
of payment on the life insurance policy. The narrative also does not describe why the institution considers
these payments to be excessive based on the customer’s prior history of payments. The narrative does not
indicate how long the subject has been in possession of the life insurance policy.
Page 35 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 36]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Annex 2. Red Flag Indicators in the Context of the UAE
The FIU published the following typologies and indicators in their Biannual Financial Crime Trends and
Typologies Report (January – June 2020). These typologies and indicators, as well as any future ones the
FIU may determine, should be incorporated into an LFI’s AML/CFT program with a view to update policies,
procedures, detection scenarios, and red flag indicators for identifying potentially suspicious activity.
B.1 General indicators
According to the FIU, the following indicators are present in many of the typologies used in money
laundering and the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations.
 Transactions involving locations with poor AML/CFT regimes or high exposure to corruption.
 Significant and/or frequent transactions in contrast to known or expected business activity.
 Significant and/or frequent transactions in contrast to known employment status.
 Ambiguous or inconsistent explanations as to the source and/or purpose of funds.
 Where relevant, nervous or uncooperative behavior exhibited by the LFI’s employees and/or
customers.
B.2 Wire transfers to and from bank accounts
 How it works: Transferring proceeds of crime from one person to another via money remittance
services.
 Possible indicators
o Significant and/or frequent cash payments for transfers.
o Transfers to or from locations that have poor AML/CFT regimes or high exposure to
corruption.
o Transfers to high-risk countries or known tax havens.
o Transfers to numerous offshore jurisdictions with no business rationale.
o Same home address provided by multiple remitters.
o Reluctant to provide the LFI with identification details.
B.3 Purchase of valuable commodities
 How it works: Laundering proceeds of crime by purchasing valuable commodities, for example,
precious metals or gems.
 Possible indicators
o Significant and/or frequent cash purchases of valuable commodities.
o Regularly buying and selling of valuable commodities that is not supported with a business
purpose and/or does not make economic sense.
B.4 Purchase of valuable assets
 How it works: Laundering proceeds of crime by purchasing valuable assets, for example, property
or vehicles.
 Possible indicators
o Purchase/sale of real estate above/below market value irrespective of economic
disadvantage.
o Cash purchases of valuable assets with cash and/or cash deposits for valuable assets.
o Low value property purchased with improvements paid for in cash before reselling.
o Rapid repayment of loans/mortgages with cash or funds from an unlikely source.
Page 36 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 37]
CBUAE Classification: Public
B.5 Offshore companies
 How it works: The process of registering companies in the UAE, especially in the free zones, with
foreign directors and/or shareholders in order to open bank accounts to facilitate money laundering
and/or the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations by unverified beneficiaries.
 Possible indicators
o Large numbers of companies registered with the same office address.
o Address on file is for a ‘Virtual office’.
o Accounts/facilities are opened/operated by company formation agents.
o Lack of information regarding overseas directors/beneficiaries.
o Complex ownership structures.
o Companies where there is no apparent business purpose.
 Additional indicators:
o The same natural person is the director for a large number of single director companies.
o The same person (natural or corporate) is the shareholder of a large number of single-
shareholder companies.
o Use of a small number of local 'agents' who undertake transactions with the companies’
register.
B.6 Nominees, trustees, family members or third parties
 How it works: Utilizing other people to carry out transactions in order to conceal the true identity
of the individual ultimately controlling the proceeds of crime.
 Possible indicators
o Customers using family members or third parties, including the use of children’s accounts.
o Transactions where third parties seem to be retaining a portion of funds, which would
indicate the use of mules.
o Accounts operated by someone other than the account holder.
o Many transactions conducted at various LFIs and/or branches, in one day.
o Significant and/or frequent transactions made over a short period of time.
B.7 Trade-based money laundering
 How it works: Manipulating invoices, often in connection with international trade, by overstating
the value of a shipment providing criminal entities with a paper justification to either launder
proceeds of crime and/or send funds overseas to finance terrorism.
 Possible indicators
o Invoice value greater than value of goods.
o Discrepancies in domestic and foreign import/export data.
o Suspicious cargo movements.
o Suspicious domestic import data.
o Discrepancies in information regarding the origin, description, and value of the goods.
o Discrepancies with tax declarations on export declarations.
o Sudden increase in online auction sales by particular vendors (online auction sites).
o Frequent purchases between same buyers and vendors (online auction sites).
B.8 Cancellation of credits or overpayments
 How it works: Laundering proceeds of crime by overpaying then requesting refund cheques for
the balance.
Page 37 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 38]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Possible indicators
o Frequent cheque deposits issued by car dealers, dealers in jewelry, etc.
o Significant and/or frequent payments to utility companies, for example, prepaid cards for
fuel, telecom e-wallets etc.
o Frequent cheque deposits issued by utility companies (i.e., electricity providers).
o Significant and/or frequent payments for purchases from online auction sites.
o Frequent personal cheque deposits issued by third parties.
B.9 Electronic transfers to and from bank accounts
 How it works: Transferring proceeds of crime from one bank account to another via LFIs.
 Possible indicators
o Transfers to or from locations that have poor AML/CFT regimes or high exposure to
corruption.
o Transfers involving accounts located in high-risk countries or known tax havens.
o Transfers to offshore jurisdictions with no business rationale.
o Multiple transfers sent to the same person overseas by different people.
o Departure from the UAE shortly after transferring funds.
o Transfers of funds between various accounts that show no economic purpose (i.e., multiple
transfers incurring bank fees where one single transfer would have been sufficient).
B.10 Co-Mingling
 How it works: Combining proceeds of crime with legitimate business takings.
 Possible indicators
o Significant and/or frequent cash deposits when business has electronic funds transfer at
point-of-sale facilities.
o Large number of accounts held by a customer with the same LFI.
o Accounts operated by someone other than the account holder.
o Merging businesses to create layers.
o Complex ownership structures.
o Regular use of third-party accounts.
B.11 Gatekeepers/professional services
 How it works: Utilizing ‘Professionals’ to establish seemingly legitimate business activities, for
example, Lawyers, Accountants, Brokers, Company Formation Agents.
 Possible indicators
o Accounts and/or facilities opened and/or operated by company formation agents.
o Gatekeepers that appear to have full control.
o Known or suspected corrupt professionals offering services to criminal entities.
o Accounts operated by someone other than the account holder.
B.12 Cash deposits
 How it works: Placement of cash into the financial system.
 Possible indicators
o Large cash deposits followed immediately by withdrawals or electronic transfers.
Page 38 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 39]
CBUAE Classification: Public
B.13 Structuring
 How it works: Separating large transactions into small transactions to avoid scrutiny and detection
from LFIs.
 Possible indicators
o Many transactions conducted at various LFIs and/or branches, in one day.
o Small/frequent cash deposits, withdrawals, electronic transfers made over a short time
period.
o Multiple low value domestic or international transfer.
B.14 Smurfing
 How it works: Utilizing third parties or groups of people to carry out structuring.
 Possible indicators
o Third parties conducting numerous transactions on behalf of other individuals.
o Many transactions conducted at various LFIs and/or branches, in one day.
o Accounts operated by someone other than the account holder.
B.15 Credit Cards/Cheques/Promissory Notes
 How it works: Instruments used to access funds held in an LFI, often in another jurisdiction.
 Possible indicators
o Frequent cheque deposits in contrast to known or expected business activity.
o Multiple cash advances on credit card facilities.
o Credit cards with large credit balances.
B.16 Transactions inconsistent with intended purpose of the account
 How it works: Transactions that are out of the ordinary for the individual or conducted without a
clear rationale.
 Possible indicators
o Transactions to or from unrelated parties.
o Transaction amounts that are inconsistent with the account’s expected volumes or
frequencies.
o Transactions that are out of the ordinary for the customer’s profession or business activity.
B.17 Cash couriers
 How it works: Concealing the movement of currency from one jurisdiction to another using people,
luggage, mail, or any other mode of shipment, without declaration.
 Possible indicators
o Transactions involving locations with poor AML/CFT regimes or high exposure to
corruption.
o Customers originating from locations with poor AML/CFT regimes/high exposure to
corruption.
o Significant and/or frequent cash deposits made over a short period of time.
o Significant and/or frequent currency exchanges made over a short period of time.
B.18 Other payment technologies
 How it works: Utilizing emerging or new payment technologies such as virtual currencies/crypto-
currencies, peer-to-peer (P2P) lending etc. to facilitate money laundering and/or the financing of
terrorism and illegal organisations.
Page 39 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 40]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Possible indicators
o Excessive use of stored value cards.
o Significant and/or frequent transactions using mobile telephone services.
o Unjustified transactions to and from Cryptocurrency platforms and digital assets
exchanges.
B.19 Underground banking/alternative remittance services
 How it works: Transferring proceeds of crime from one person to another via informal banking
mechanisms such as unregistered Hawaladars.
 Possible indicators
o Mostly prevalent under the auspices of a general trading company license.
o Significant and/or frequent cash payments for transfers in which the cash deposits could
be from many different individuals using the cash deposit machines.
o Cash volumes and transfers in excess of average income of migrant account holders.
o Transfers to or from locations that have poor AML/CFT regimes or high exposure to
corruption.
o Large transfers from accounts to potential cash pooling accounts.
o Significant and/or frequent transfers recorded informally using unconventional book-
keeping.
o Significant and/or frequent transfers requested by unknown or intermittent customers.
o Numerous deposits to one account followed by numerous payments made to various
people.
o Vague invoices and documentation which may deliberately be made to appear complex.
B.20 Cash exchanges
 How it works: Exchanging low denomination notes for high denomination notes (also known as
refining) as a means to launder proceeds of crime, as well as reduce large volumes of cash
obtained from serious crime.
 Possible indicators
o Significant and/or frequent cash exchanges from small to large denominations.
B.21 Currency conversion
 How it works: Converting one currency into another as a means to launder proceeds of crime, as
well as reduce large volumes of cash obtained from serious crime.
 Possible indicators
o Significant and/or frequent local or foreign currency exchanges.
o Opening of foreign currency accounts with no apparent business or economic purpose.
Page 40 of 46