[Document: PI.pdf, Page 101]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The charge for specific risk protects against price movements in a security owing to factors
related to the individual issuer, that is, price moves that are not initiated by the general market.
a) Offsetting
When specific risk is measured, offsetting between positions is restricted.
 Offsetting is only permitted for matched positions in an identical issue.
 Offsetting is not allowed between different issues, even if the issuer is the same. This is
because differences in coupon rates, liquidity, call features, and so on, mean that prices
may diverge in the short run.
b) Specific Risk – Capital Charge
Under the standardised approach, market risk exposures are categorised according to
external credit assessments (ratings) and based on those assessments a capital charge is
assigned. This broad methodology for calculating the specific risk capital charge was not changed
by Basel 2.5.
The capital charges assigned to those external credit assessments are similar to the credit
risk charges under the standardised approach to credit risk.
Categorisation of Securities
Consistent with other sections, a lower specific risk charge can be applied to government
paper denominated in the domestic currency and funded by the bank in the same currency. The
national discretion is limited to GCC Sovereigns. This use of national discretion aligns the Market
Risk Standards with the similar treatment under the credit risk standards. The Market Risk
Standard is also aligned to the Credit Risk Standard when it comes to the transition period
permitted for USD funded and denominated exposures of the individual Emirates.
Qualifying includes securities issued by public sector entities and multilateral development
banks, plus other securities that are rated with investment grades by two rating agencies. Unrated
securities can also be included, subject to supervisory approval (such as securities deemed to be
of comparable investment quality).
Other securities comprise of securities that do not meet the definition of government or the
definition of qualifying securities. This category receives the same risk charge as non-investment
grade borrowers under the standardised approach to credit risk. However, it is recognised that for
some high yielding debt instruments, an 8% specific risk charge may underestimate the specific
risk.
Calculating the Capital Requirement for Market and Credit Risk
The standards contain different processes for calculating the capital requirement for
market and credit risk. For credit risk, assets are first risk weighted (by multiplying them by a risk
weight) and then a capital requirement is applied. In contrast, for market risk, exposures are
simply multiplied by a specific risk capital charge. For an exposure with a given external credit
assessment (rating), the specific risk capital charge is the same as the capital requirement
calculated under the standardised approach for credit risk.
102

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 102]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Specific Risk – Capital Charge for Positions Covered Under the Securitisation
Framework
Following the 2009 enhancements to the BCF, the specific risk of securitisation positions
held in the trading book are generally calculated in the same way as securitisation positions in the
banking book.
Specific risk – the capital charges for positions covered under the standardised approach
for securitisation exposures.
The default position for unrated securitisations can be thought of as a capital charge of
100 percent (that is, equivalent to a risk weight of 1250 percent where the capital charge is 8
percent).
Where the specific risk capital charge for an exposure is 100% such that capital is held for
the full value of the exposure, it may be excluded from the calculation of the capital charge for
general market risk. Forfurther details, please refer to the securitisation framework.
Treatment of Interest Rate Derivatives
The interest rate risk measurement system should include all interest rate derivatives and
off-balance sheet instruments assigned to the trading book that are sensitive to changes in
interest rates.
The derivatives are converted into positions in the relevant underlying. These positions
are subject to the general market risk charges and, where applicable, the specific risk charges for
interest rate risk. The amounts reported should be the market value of the principal amount of the
underlying or notional underlying.
For instruments where the apparent notional amount differs from the effective notional
amount, banks will use the effective notional amount.
Interest rate derivatives include:
 forward rate agreements (FRAs)
 other forward contracts
 bond futures
 interest rate swaps
 cross currency swaps
 forward foreign exchange positions
 interest rate options
Refer to the examples below in this section for numerical illustrations
B. Equity Risk
Market risk can be influenced by changes in equity prices, that is, equity risk.
Equity risk is the risk that movement in equity prices will have a negative effect on the
value of equity positions. The capital charge for equity risk is the sum of the charges for general
and specific market risk.
103

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 103]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The Central Bank sets out a minimum capital standard to cover the risk of equity positions
held in the trading book. It applies to long and short positions in all instruments that exhibit
behavior similar to equities, with the exception of non-convertible preference shares, which fall
under interest rate risk requirements.
1. Capital Charges for Equity Risk
To calculate the minimum capital charge for equity risk, you must calculate two separate
charges:
 A general market risk charge of 8% is applied to the net overall position.
 A specific risk charge of 8% is applied to the gross equity position. After offsetting long
and short positions in the same issue, a bank's gross equity position is the sum of the
absolute values of all long equity positions and all short equity positions.
Since banks may hold equities in different national markets, separate calculations for
general and specific risk must be carried out for eachof these markets.
Offsetting
Long and short positions in the same issue can be fully offset, resulting in a single net long or
short position.
2. Treatment of Equity Derivatives
Equity derivatives and off-balance-sheet positions that are affected by changes in equity
prices should be included in the measurement system, with the exception of certain options
positions. This includes futures and swaps on both individual equities and on stock indices.
Positions in these equity derivatives should be converted into notional positions in the
relevant underlying stock or portfolio of stocks. For example, stock index futures should be
reported as the marked-to-market value of the notional underlying equity portfolio. A stock index
future is an agreement to buy or sell a standard quantity of a specific stock index, on a recognised
exchange, at a price agreed between two parties, and with delivery to be executed on a
standardised future settlement date. As it is obviously not feasible to deliver an actual stock index,
stock index futures contracts are settled by cash, calculated with reference to the difference
between the purchase price and the level of the index at settlement.
An equity swap is an agreement between two counterparties to swap the returns on a
stock or a stock index for a stream of payments based on some other form of asset return. Often,
one payment leg is determined by a stock index with the second leg determined by a fixed or
floating rate of interest. Alternatively, the second leg may be determined by some other stock
index (often referred to as a relative performance swap).
Equity swaps should be treated as two notional positions. For example, in an equity swap
where a bank is receiving an amount based on the change in value of one stock index and paying
an amount based on a different index, the bank is regarded as having a long position in the former
index and a short positionin the latter index.
In addition to the general market risk requirement, a further capital charge of 2% will be
applied to the net long or short position in index contracts on a diversified portfolio of equities, to
cover factors such as execution risk. As the standard stated.
104

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 104]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Refer to the examples below in this section for numerical illustrations
C. Foreign Exchange Rates
Market risk can be influenced by changes in foreign exchange rates, that is, foreign
exchange risk.
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the value of foreign exchange positions may be
adversely affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Foreign exchange positions or
exposures incur only general market risk. The capital charge for foreign exchange risk also include
a charge for positions in gold. For purposes of market risk capital requirements, the Central Bank
takes into account the stable relationship between the AED and the US dollar, with the resultthat
no capital is charged for open positions in USD. Foreign currency is any currency other than the
bank's reporting currency.
Two steps are required to calculate the overall net open position:
Step 1: Determine the Exposure in Each Currency
The first step is to calculate the bank's open position, long or short in each currency.
The open position in each currency is the sum of:
 the net spot FX position (Includes also all asset items less all liability items, including
accrued interest, denominated in the currency)
 the net forward FX position (Because forward FX rates reflect interest rate differentials,
forward positions are normally valued at current spot exchange rates. The net forward
position in an exposure should consist of all amounts to be received less all amounts to
be paid under forward FX transactions, including currency futures and the principal on
currency swaps not included in the spot position. For banks that base their management
accounting on the net present values (NPVs), the NPV of each position should be used;
discounted using current interest rates and valued at current spot rates)
 guarantees and similar instruments that are certain to be called and are likely to be
irrecoverable.
 net future income and expenses not yet accrued but already fully hedged
 any other item representing a profit or loss in foreign currencies
 the net delta-based equivalent of the total book of foreign currency options
Step 2: Determine the Overall Net Open Position across FX Exposures
The second step in calculating the capital requirement for FX risk is to measure the risk in the
bank's portfolio of foreign currency and gold positions.
You can determine the overall net open position of the portfolio by first converting the exposure
in each foreign currency into the reporting currency at the spot rates. Then, calculate the overall
net position by summing the following:
 the greater of the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions
(excluding the net open position in the US dollar
 Take the larger of the two sums, from the step above, and add the absolute value of the
net position (short or long) in gold.
The capital charge for foreign exchange market risk is 8% of the position resulting from the
105

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 105]
CBUAE Classification: Public
calculation above.
Foreign Exchange (FX) Exceptions
The Central Bank of UAE may allow banks to exclude certain FX positions from the capital
charges calculation. Banks have to comply with both the requirement of para 70 of the Market
Risk section of the standards.
Items that are deducted from a bank’s capital when calculating its capital base, such as
investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries, or other long-term participations denominated in
foreign currencies, which are reported in the published accounts at historic cost, do not need to
be included as foreign currency exposures for the foreign exchange risk calculation.
Banks with negligible business in foreign currencies and with no FX positions taken for
their own account may exclude their FX positions if they meet both of the following requirements:
 their FX business (the greater of the sum of their gross long positions and the sum of their
gross short positions) does not exceed 100% of total capital (Tier 1 + Tier 2)
 their overall net open position does not exceed 2% of its total capital
D. Commodity Risk
Market risk can be influenced by changes in commodity prices, that is, commodity risk.
Commodity risk is the risk that on- or off-balance sheet positions will be adversely affected by
movements in commodity prices.
A commodity is defined as a physical product that can be traded on a secondary market,
for example, agricultural products, minerals and precious metals. Gold; however, is covered under
the framework for foreign exchange.
Price risk in commodities is often more complex and volatile than price risk associated
with currencies and interest rates. One reason for this is that commodity prices are influenced by
natural events such as floods and droughts. Changes in supply and demand also have more
dramatic effects on price and volatility, and commodity markets often lack liquidity.
Commodity risk only has a general market risk component because commodity prices are
not influenced by specific risk.
Banks using portfolio strategies involving forward and derivative contracts on commodities
are exposed to a variety of additional risks, such as:
 Basis risk. the risk of changes in the cost of carry for forward positions and options. Cost
of carry is a margin and refers to the net effect of borrowing funds for a certain period of
time and investing them in a financial instrument or commodity for the same period of time.
If the interest earned on the instrument or commodity is greater than the cost of borrowing,
then the cost of carry is positive. The cost of carry can also be negative if the cost of
borrowing is greater than the interest earned.
 Forward gap risk. This is the risk wherein forward prices may change for reasons other
than a change in interest rates.
It is important to note that these risks could well exceed the risk associated with changes
in spot prices of commodities.
106

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 106]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. `Treatment of Commodities
Offsetting
When measuring risk in commodities, offsetting between positions is restricted.