[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 1]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3
181

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 2]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3 – Market Disclosures
I. Introduction
1. Market discipline has long been recognized as a key objective of the Central Bank of the
UAE. The provision of meaningful information about common key risk metrics to market
participants is a fundamental principle of a sound banking system. It reduces information
irregularity and helps promote comparability of banks’ risk profiles within UAE. Pillar 3 of the Basel
framework aims to promote market discipline through regulatory disclosure requirements. These
requirements enable market participants to access key information relating to a bank’s regulatory
capital and risk exposures in order to increase transparency and confidence about a bank’s
exposure to risk and the overall adequacy of its regulatory capital.
2. The revised Pillar 3 disclosures in this guidance focus on regulatory measures defined in
Pillar 1 of the Basel framework, which requires banks to adopt specified approaches for measuring
credit, market and operational risks and their associated resulting risk-weighted assets (RWA) and
capital requirements. In some instances, Pillar 3 also requires supplementary information to be
disclosed to improve the understanding of underlying risks. Central Bank continues to believe that
a common disclosure framework based around Pillar 1 is an effective means of informing the
market and allowing market participants to take informed investment decisions. However, in the
wake of the 2007–09 financial crisis, it became apparent that the existing Pillar 3 framework failed
to promote the identification of a bank’s material risks and did not provide sufficient, and
sufficiently comparable, information to enable market participants to assess a bank’s overall
capital adequacy and to compare it with its peers. The revised Pillar 3 disclosure requirements in
this guidance are based on an extensive review of Pillar 3 reports.
3. A key goal of the revised Pillar 3 disclosures is to improve comparability and consistency
of disclosures. However, it is recognized that a balance needs to be struck between the use of
mandatory templates that promote consistency of reporting and comparability across banks, and
the need to allow senior management sufficient flexibility to provide commentary on a bank’s
specific risk profile. For this reason, the revised disclosure regime introduces a “hierarchy” of
disclosures; prescriptive fixed form templates which are used for quantitative information that is
considered essential for the analysis of a bank’s regulatory capital requirements, and templates
with a more flexible format are proposed for information which is considered meaningful to the
UAE market but not central to the analysis of a bank’s regulatory capital adequacy. In addition,
senior management may accompany the disclosure requirements in each template with a
qualitative commentary that explains a bank’s particular circumstance and risk profile.
II. Disclosure of Pillar 3 information
A. Scope and implementation of the revised Pillar 3 framework
Scope of application
4. The revised disclosure requirements presented in this guidance supersede the existing
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements issued in 2009. These revised requirements are an integral part
of the Basel framework and they complement other disclosure requirements issued separately by
Central Bank, which are uploaded on Central Bank's website/online portal for banks to download.
182

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 3]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3 applies to all banks in the UAE at the top consolidated level for local banks and all
branches of foreign banks. Banks having a banking subsidiary will be required to be consolidated
at Group level as one Pillar 3 report as well as at subsidiary solo level as a separate Pillar 3 report
Banks offering Islamic financial services should comply with these disclosure requirements.
These requirements are applicable to their activities that are in line with Islamic Sharia rules and
principals, which are neither interest-based lending nor borrowing but are parallel to the activities
described in these Guidance and Explanatory Notes
Implementation date
5. The Pillar 3 tables and disclosures will be effective from the beginning of 2019 for the
previous year's figures and every year going forward. Banks need to report in each table as per
the requirements for that table set out in the Appendix since few tables are required to be reported
every quarter or semi-annually or annually.
Reporting
6. Banks should publish their Pillar 3 report in a stand-alone document on the bank’s UAE-
specific website that provides a readily accessible source of prudential measures for users. The
Pillar 3 report may be appended to form a discrete section of a bank’s financial reporting, but the
full report will be needed to be disclosed separately in the Pillar 3 tables as well.
7. Signposting of disclosure requirements is permitted in certain circumstances, as set out
in paragraphs 21–23 below. Banks should also make available on their websites a 5-year
archive of Pillar 3 reports (i.e. quarterly, semi-annual or annual) relating to prior reporting
periods (past 5 years’ data)
Frequency and timing of disclosures
8. The reporting frequencies for each disclosure requirement are set out in the schedule in
paragraph 27 below. The frequencies vary between quarterly, semi-annual and annual reporting
depending upon the nature of the specific disclosure requirement. If a bank publishes interim
financial statements, then the bank should publish the quarterly Pillar 3 report, three (3) weeks
after the interim financial statements are published. For bankswho do not have an interim financial
statement,the Pillar 3 quarterly report needs to be published 6 weeks from quarter end.
9. A bank’s Pillar 3 report should be published with its financial report for thecorresponding
period as mandated in paragraph 8 above. If a Pillar 3 disclosure is required to be published for
a period when a bank does not produce any financial report, the disclosure requirement should
be published as soon as possible. However, the time lag should not exceed that allowed to the
bank for its regular financial reporting period-ends (e.g. if a bank reports only annually and its
annual financial statements are made available six weeks after the end of the annual reporting
period-end, interim Pillar 3 disclosures on a quarterly and/or semi-annual basis should be
available within six weeks after the end of the relevant quarter or semester).
Assurance of Pillar 3 data
10. The information provided by banks under Pillar 3 should be subject, at a minimum, to the
same level of internal review and internal control processes as the information provided by banks
for their financial reporting (i.e. the level of assurance should be the same as for information
provided within the management discussion and analysis part of the financial report).
 The Pillar 3 Disclosures and reports have to be reviewed by internal audit of all bank for all
Pillar 3 reports.
183

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 4]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 All local banks and large foreign banks will need to have the annual Pillar 3 reports externally
audited every two (2) years and smaller foreign banks (as defined in paragraph 27) will need
to have the annual Pillar 3 reports externally audited every four (4) years.
11. Banks should also have a formal board-approved disclosure policy for Pillar 3 information
that sets out the internal controls and procedures for disclosure of such information. The key
elements of this policy should be described in the year-end Pillar 3 report. The board of directors
and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal
control structure over the disclosure of financial information, including Pillar 3 disclosures. They
should also ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. One or more senior
officers of a bank, ideally at board level or equivalent, should attest in writing that Pillar 3
disclosures have been prepared in accordance with the board-agreed internal control processes.
For larger banks, Board member attestation will be expected.
Proprietary and confidential information
12. The Central Bank believes that the disclosure requirements set out below strike an
appropriate balance between the need for meaningful disclosure and the protection of proprietary
and confidential information. In exceptional cases, disclosure of certain items required by Pillar 3
may reveal the position of a bank or contravene its legal obligations by making public information
that is proprietary or confidential in nature. In such cases, a bank would need to approach the
Central Bank first and obtain approval for non-disclosure of such information they deem to be
confidential. The Central Bank will review the information and provide approval if the bank does
not need to disclose those specific items, but should disclose more general information about the
subject matter of the requirement instead. The bank should also explain to Central Bank the
specific items of information that cannot be disclosed and the reasons for this.
B. Guiding principles for banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures
13. The Central Bank has agreed upon five guiding principles for banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures.
Pillar 3 complements the minimum risk-based capital requirements and other quantitative
requirements (Pillar 1) and the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and aims to promote market
discipline by providing meaningful regulatory information to investors and other interested parties
on a consistent and comparable basis. The guiding principles aim to provide a firm foundation for
achieving transparent, high-quality Pillar 3 risk disclosures that will enable users to better
understand and compare a bank’s business and its risks.
14. The principles are as follows:
Principle 1: Disclosures should be clear
Disclosures should be presented in a form that is understandable to key stakeholders (i.e.
investors, analysts, financial customers and others) and communicated through an accessible
medium. Important messages should be highlighted and easy to find. Complex issues should be
explained in simple language with important terms defined. Related risk information should be
presented together.
Principle 2: Disclosures should be comprehensive
Disclosures should describe a bank’s main activities and all significant risks, supported by relevant
underlying data and information. Significant changes in risk exposures between reporting periods
should be described, together with the appropriate response by management.
Disclosures should provide sufficient information in both qualitative and quantitative terms on a
bank’s processes and procedures for identifying, measuring and managing those risks. The level
of detail of such disclosure should be proportionate to a bank’s complexity.
184

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 5]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Approaches to disclosure should be sufficiently flexible to reflect how senior management and the
board of directors internally assess and manage risks and strategy, helping users to better
understand a bank’s risk tolerance/appetite.
Principle 3: Disclosures should be meaningful to users
Disclosures should highlight a bank’s most significant current and emerging risks and how those
risks are managed, including information that is likely to receive market attention. Where
meaningful, linkages should be provided to line items on the balance sheet or the income
statement. Disclosures that do not add value to users’ understanding or do not communicate
useful information should be avoided. Furthermore, information, which is no longer meaningful or
relevant to users, should be removed.
Principle 4: Disclosures should be consistent over time
Disclosures should be consistent over time to enable key stakeholders to identify trends in a
bank’s risk profile across all significant aspects of its business. Additions, deletions and other
important changes in disclosures from previous reports, including those arising from a bank’s
specific, regulatory or market developments, should be highlighted and explained.
Principle 5: Disclosures should be comparable across banks
The level of detail and the format of presentation of disclosures should enable key stakeholders
to perform meaningful comparisons of business activities, prudential metrics, risks and risk
management between banks and across jurisdictions.
C. Presentation of the disclosure requirements
Templates and tables
15. The disclosure requirements are presented either in the form of templates or of tables.
Templates should be completed with quantitative data in accordance with the definitions provided.
Tables generally relate to qualitative requirements, but quantitative information is also required in
some instances. Banks may choose the format they prefer when presenting the information
requested in tables.
16. In line with Principle 3 above, the information provided in the templates and tables should
be meaningful to users. The disclosure requirements in this guidance that necessitate an
assessment from banks are specifically identified. When preparing these individual tables and