
implement a formal process to analyse whether the outcomes of the ICAAP influence the
business strategy. Banks should determine which additional capital requirements under Pillar
1 and Pillar 2 in business as usual BAU and stress scenarios on the top of the minimum
regulatory requirements would be adequate and whether the bank’s risk appetite is adequate
or requires to be adjusted accordingly. The formal feedback process should also include links
to the banks’ business decisions, risk management process (e.g. using the ICAAP
methodologies, results in the approval process, limit setting, strategic processes, such as
capital planning or budgeting, and performance measurement). For that purpose, the Board
and Senior Management should lead and approve the assumptions, methodology, framework,
and outcome of the ICAAP. The usage of the ICAAP within the organisation and its alignment
with strategic decisions is referred to as the ‘Use Test’.
26. The ICAAP should have an interactive relationship with other key processes within the
bank, including but not limited to, (i) business strategies, (ii) financial budgeting, (iii) risk
management, (iv) risk appetite setting, and (v) stress tests. Metrics related to capital allocation
and capital consumption should be included in the banks’ risk appetite. Conversely, the metrics
pertaining to business management and to risk management should take into consideration
the capital plan.
27. Conceptually, this circular process should be articulated according to the following
illustration and guidance. Each bank should design its own iterative process:
(i) The Board, Senior Management and the business lines should provide their
business plan and budget to construct the ICAAP;
(ii) The risk management function should analyse the feasibility and the risks
associated to such business plan;
(iii) The ICAAP should result in an estimation of the adequate level of capital given
the business and risk assumptions. This should be approved by the Board and
by Senior Management; and
(iv) In return, the ICAAP and capital requirements should feed back to the business
lines and the risk management function in order to steer the strategy of the bank.
28. The stakeholders should regularly interact with each other during the production of the
ICAAP in order to (i) obtain consistent forward-looking capital projections, and (ii) use capital
154

[Document: document.pdf, Page 157]
CBUAE Classification: Public
projections consistently in their own decision-making. The stakeholders should include, but not
be limited to, the Board, Senior Management, the business lines, the risk management
function, and the finance function.
29. Each bank should demonstrate its appropriate usage of the ICAAP via the production
of thorough documentation, reporting covering the process, methodology, decision-making for
capital allocation, and strategy. Each bank should document the overall ICAAP design,
including key elements and the mechanism by which they interact with each other. Such
components should include, but not be limited to, the business strategies, risk appetite
statement, risk measurement methods, stress tests programme, and reporting across the
Group.
30. Regular reporting should be constructed to measure and monitor Pillar 2 risks in
addition to the annual ICAAP report exercise. Adequate metrics and associated limits should
be designed in relation to the bank’s size and complexity.
31. The Central Bank shall evaluate evidence that the bank has embraced the process for
business rather than regulatory reasons. Evidence should be provided that the management
has, through the ICAAP, made the business more efficient or less risky.
V. Capital Planning
32. Each bank should operate above the minimum capital requirements set by the Central
Bank. Each bank should have a capital plan approved by the Board. The objective of capital
planning is to ensure that:
(i) Each bank is compliant with minimum regulatory requirements;
(ii) The bank is viable and able to endure external economic changes; and
(iii) Each bank’s capital is calibrated to its risk profile in order to absorb unexpected
losses through time, including periods of economic downturn.
33. The ICAAP should be designed as a tool to adequately support these objectives. Each
bank’s management is expected to develop and maintain an appropriate strategy that ensure
the level of capital and the process to estimate such level should be commensurate with the
nature, scope, scale, size, complexity, and risks of each bank.
34. The ICAAP should be forward-looking taking into account both internal and external
drivers over a period covering three (3) to five (5) years. The capital planning should take into
account the bank’s business plan, its strategic development and the economic environment.
35. The multi-year capital forecast should be assessed and calibrated through two
perspectives:
(i) Pillar 1: The bank’s ability to fulfil all of its capital-related regulatory, supervisory
requirements, and demands; and
(ii) Pillar 2: The bank’s ability to cope with capital demands beyond that of the
regulatory requirements, in accordance to its risk profile.
36. Both perspectives should be function of the bank’s business plan. In addition, the
second perspective should incorporate a more granular, specific, and accurate measurement
of risks. Both perspectives should take into account the current, expected economic
environment, and consider the occurrence of stressed events.
37. If the bank identifies a shortfall in capital pertaining to either Pillar 1 or Pillar 2. It is
155

[Document: document.pdf, Page 158]
CBUAE Classification: Public
expected to consider measures to maintain adequate capitalisation, reverse the trend, review
its strategy, and risk appetite.
38. For each internal stress test scenario for capital planning purposes, each bank is
expected to consider credible, quantifiable management actions that the bank could practically
take to mitigate any capital impact of stress scenarios. Such mitigating actions for ICAAP
stress scenarios may differ from actions related to recovery planning. The timing and execution
of these management actions should be supported by appropriate trigger points of the bank’s
capital position, which may be informed by their internal risk appetite for capital adequacy.
When the bank’s capital ratios fall below its internal risk appetite, it is expected that the bank
is able to execute the necessary measures, i.e. the bank should explain how the capital
adequacy would be ensured/ restored (e.g. via a capital contingency plan). In assessing the
effectiveness of a management action, each bank should also consider the perceived
reputational impact (e.g. as viewed by the market, customers, government etc.) on taking such
an action in a stress. The results should be disclosed in the ICAAP report with and without
those management actions that have been approved by the bank’s Board.
39. If the bank plans the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights issues,
reduction in the equity, etc.), the bank may consider the capital increase in its capital planning.
The bank should only consider capital increases that have obtained Senior Management
approval and form part of the bank’s official capital plan and that have been discussed with the
Central Bank. A bank that considers capital increases in it capital planning has to perform an
additional stress test scenario to analyse the impact if the capital increase does not materialise.
40. The following elements should be included in the ICAAP report or related appendix:
(i) Assumptions related to business developments over the forecasted period;
(ii) Assumptions related to the economic environment over the forecasted period;
(iii) Summary of historic capital base, aggregate RWAs, and CAR ratios for a
minimum of five (5) years;
(iv) Disclosure of the following forecasted financial projections:
(v) Detailed balance sheet;
(vi) Detailed statement of profit and loss;
(vii) Break down of Capital base into its regulatory components;
(viii) Break down of Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) components;
(ix) Significant ratios (e.g. CET 1, Tier 1, and CAR);
(x) A method to calibrate capital needs to the current and expected levels of risks,
in coherence with the bank’s risk appetite, business plan, and strategy;
(xi) It should include the likely future constraints on the availability and the use of
capital; and
(xii) Any future regulatory and accounting changes that can potentially impact such
plan.
41. Banks are required to fulfill internal risk appetite requirements in the bank’s self-
assessment of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 minimum regulatory capital requirements. Banks should
156

[Document: document.pdf, Page 159]
CBUAE Classification: Public
fulfill the minimum capital requirements plus capital buffer requirements under business as
usual (BAU) conditions. Under stress testing (ST) banks should fulfill the minimum capital
requirements without the requirement to meet buffer requirements.
42. The capital planning should not be limited to risk-based capital ratios but should also
consider the leverage ratio of the bank. Bank should analyse and consider unaccounted
foreseeable events in the capital plan, e.g. regulatory changes like the revised standardised
approaches for credit, market and operational risk.
VI. Material Risks
43. As a part of its risk management practices, each bank is responsible for implementing
a regular process to identify, measure, report, monitor, and mitigate risks. Such risk
management process should be used as direct input into the calibration of capital demand to
cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks. The framework supporting the estimation of capital
consumption for each risk type should approved by Senior Management and the Board.
44. All risks identified as material risks are expected to be addressed in the ICAAP. Risk
materiality should depend on each bank’s business model and risk profile. The scope of such
risk identification should cover the entire group, including all branches and subsidiaries of the
bank. The Central Bank considers credit concentration risk and interest rate risk in the banking
book (IRRBB) as defined in this Guidance, as material risks. Given the growing risk universe
outside of traditional Pillar 1 risks, each bank must define, update, and review the applicable
ICAAP risks on a continuous basis (e.g. quarterly).
45. The identification of risks should distinguish between direct risks and indirect risks.
Direct risks are explicit and commonly identifiable risks, such as the credit risk associated with
facility underwriting. Indirect risks are arising as second order consequences of direct risks
and unforeseen events. For instance, an increase in fraud and cyber-attacks as a
consequence of an economic downturn or a pandemic during which employees are forced to
work from home. Other examples are the credit risk arising from derivatives during periods of
high market volatility or the increase in credit risk resulting from a drop in collateral values
following a real estate market crash.
46. The identification of risks should be supported by a regular and structured process. An
inventory of risks should be recorded for each business activity and each portfolio on a regular
basis. In addition to the regular updates (i.e. at least quarterly), it is expected to adjust the
inventory whenever it no longer reflects the risks that are material, e.g. because a new product
has been introduced or certain business activities have been expanded. This should support
the production of ICAAP from one year to the next.
47. The measurement of risk should be transparent, documented, and supported by
subject-matter experts throughout the bank. Each expert function should contribute to its area
of expertise, in such way that the ICAAP is a reflection of a collective work substantiated by
thorough analysis. Each dedicated risk team should provide a comprehensive assessment of
the risk drivers and materiality of the risk they manage.
48. The estimation of the capital consumption associated with each risk should be based
upon clear methodologies designed appropriately for each risk type. Each bank should identify
the owner of such methodology either within the team responsible to manage risks or with a
centralised team responsible for aggregating risk information and to construct the ICAAP.
Ultimately, the process to identify, measure risks, and estimate the associated capital
consumption should be approved by Senior Management and the Board.
49. In the case of vendor models, this includes the expectation that such models are not
expected to be imported mechanistically, but rather they are expected to be fully understood
157

[Document: document.pdf, Page 160]
CBUAE Classification: Public
by the bank and well suited for, and tailored to, its business and its risk profile.
50. The identification of risks should result in distinct types:
(i) Pillar 1 risks that are not fully captured and that are covered by insufficient
capital. For instance, the market risk capital consumption under Pillar 1 might
not incorporate sufficient basis risk; and
(ii) Risks that are not captured at all as part of the Pillar 1 framework.
51. Each bank should not develop separate methodologies for risk measurement, if those
are not employed for risk management. The Use Test assumes that the method and conclusion
of the ICAAP should be coherent with the bank’s internal practices.
52. To ensure an adequate assessment of high quality, each bank should establish, and
implement an effective data quality framework, to deploy adequate processes, and control
mechanisms to ensure the quality of data. The data quality framework should ensure reliable
risk information that supports sound decision-making, covers all relevant risk data, and data
quality dimensions.
53. The next sections contain explanations and expectations on certain risk types (e.g.
Business Model Analysis (BMA) and strategic risk, Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,
and Credit concentration risk).
A. Business Model Analysis (BMA) and Strategic Risk
54. Business model analysis embodies the risk that the bank has failed to structure its
organisation and operations (expertise, systems, and processes) in a way that leads to
achieving its primary business and strategic objectives.
55. Strategic risks arise when the bank’s business model, organisation structure,
operations, and/or strategy are no longer adequate to deliver the objective of the bank as
specified by the Board.
56. The bank should conduct regular business model analysis (BMA) to assess its
business and strategic risks to determine:
(i) The ability of the bank’s current business model to deliver suitable results over
the following 12 months;
(ii) The sustainability of the bank’s strategy and its ability to deliver suitable/
acceptable results over a forward-looking period of at least three (3) to five (5)
years, based on the strategic plans and financial planning;
(iii) The sustainability and sufficient diversification of income over time (three (3) to
five (5) years). This analysis should consider the sources and levels of income
and expenses; and
(iv) The ability of the bank to deliver total financial data across the group and for
each of its key business units (includes forward-looking performance and
profitability).
57. An effective BMA contains a through-the-cycle view of the sustainability of the business
model in its current state and against a projected view of the bank’s funding structure, return
on equity (ROE), capital supply, and capital demand, the effect this has on the product, service
pricing, and resource requirements. The business planning should be clear, aligned, and
158