[Document: PII.pdf, Page 31]
CBUAE Classification: Public
use of, any third parties such as external consultants or suppliers. The bank
should provide a high-level summary reports or reviews of the outsourced
functions’ related policy documentation and processes.
3.2 Models
141. The ICAAP report is required to address models used to comply with regulatory and
accounting requirements, and those used for internal capital management, including but not
limited to models used for:
(i) IFRS9 accounting requirements;
(ii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 1 risks for capital requirements under the
Pillar 2;
(iii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 2 risks for capital requirements;
(iv) Regulatory stress tests requirements;
(v) Risk Management Regulations;
(vi) Valuation adjustments; and
(vii) Pricing models, capital allocation models, and budgeting models.
3.3 Reverse Stress Testing
142. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests and document the process and outcomes of the process in the ICAAP report.
143. Banks are expected to apply a mix of qualitative analyses and quantitative analyses,
which may vary in relation to the nature, scale, and complexity of the banks’ business activities
and the risks associated with those activities. Accordingly, it may be acceptable for smaller
and less complex banks to develop reverse stress tests that focus more on qualitative
analyses, while larger and more banks that are complex should include more quantitative
elements alongside the qualitative analyses. Appropriate scenarios differ based on each bank
economic circumstances, business model and risk drivers.
144. A bank may consider implementing the following steps, which are presented purely for
illustrative purposes:
(i) Define specific trigger points that could threaten the bank’s viability or
solvency. Such trigger points may involve situations in which:
 The bank’s capital or liquidity positions fall below the minimum regulatory
requirements;
 Specific indicators which, if hit, reflect a loss of confidence by the bank’s
counterparties (e.g. access to wholesale funding markets denied) or by
depositors (e.g. deposit run-off rates reach a significant level); or
 The bank is unable to repay its debt obligations. Some of the indicators
may render the banks unviable (e.g. due to illiquidity resulting from a
substantial and rapid deposit run) before it becomes insolvent.
(ii) Reverse-engineering the bank’s business model to the point that the trigger
points are breached. In this way, it is possible to identify what adverse but
plausible financial or non-financial events, either independently or combined,
179

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 32]
CBUAE Classification: Public
cause the bank to reach those trigger points notwithstanding existing
management actions. That is, for reverse stress testing purposes, the bank is to
tweak the parameters of a stress scenario until the point at which current
systems and controls (e.g. accepted risk limits, controls, exposures and
collaterals, etc.) are not able to prevent the bank from hitting the trigger point(s).
The bank should understand the parameters and conditions in the scenario that
precipitate a failed reverse stress test to analyse its risks and weaknesses.
Feasible remedial actions should be designed that could prevent the
consequences of such a scenario. For example, the bank could amend its
business strategy regarding a specific sector.
3.4 Supplementary Content Required in an ICAAP Report
145. The following supplementary topics should be documented in the ICAAP report.
(a) Summary of outstanding findings and required management actions from
pertinent assessments, examinations and audits (e.g. current outstanding
actions emanating from internal audits, external audits, risk management
assessments, capital management reviews, Central Bank examinations, and
Pillar 3, etc.), including the status of official actions;
(b) Key items which warrant immediate Central Bank attention, such asa projected
shortfall in regulatory minimum capital amount; a breach in outlier status under
IRRBB, and any other material risks;
(c) A list of the major changes compared to the previous ICAAP report, e.g. changes
in data, MIS, organisation, process, and methodology; and
(d) Key actions resulting from ICAAP discussions with the Board of Directors, in the
form of meeting minutes included as an Appendix. (Relevant evidence should
be made available upon request).
180