
200 400
𝑀 = 2×( )+3×( )= 2.67
600 600
74

[Document: document.pdf, Page 77]
CBUAE Classification: Public
G. Risk Weights
Derivatives exposures and CVA hedges enter the CVA capital calculation with associated
risk weights that depend on the credit rating of the bank’s counterparties for the covered
exposures, or on the credit rating of the underlying entity for hedge instruments. In the case of
unrated counterparties or entities, banks should follow the approach applied by the Central Bank
for credit derivatives that reference unrated entities in the CCR Standards, treating them as BBB
rated unless the counterparty or entity has an elevated risk of default, in which case they should
be treated as BB rated.
The CVA Standards follows the BCBS framework in specifying an array of risk weights
that align with an external rating scale that is most similar to the one used by Standard and Poor’s.
Use of this rating scale for purposes of the CVA Standards should not be viewed as an
endorsement of that or any other external rating agency. Banks may use other ratings, and should
map those ratings to the scale included in the Standards using the historical default experience
for the various rating grades as published by the relevant external rating agencies.
H. Risk-Weighted Assets
The formula developed by the BCBS to determine CVA capital reflects a calibration based
on the 8% minimum capital ratio applied in the Basel capital framework. To calculate a
corresponding RWA amount, the Standards requires banks to multiply the calculated CVA capital
by a factor of 12.5, which is the reciprocal of 8%. That is, 1/(0.08) = 12.5. This multiplication is
appropriate even if the Central Bank applies a higher minimum capital requirement to the resulting
RWA, because the purpose of the multiplication by 12.5 is to reverse the calibration implicitly used
by the BCBS to produce a capital number in the original formulation.
I. Threshold for the Simple Alternative
As part of the finalization of Basel III, the BCBS introduced a materiality threshold, and
provided an option for any bank whose aggregate notional amount of non-centrally cleared
derivatives is less than or equal to 100 billion euro to choose to set its CVA capital equal to 100%
of its capital for counterparty credit risk.
To implement this option in the UAE, the Central Bank has established a materiality
threshold of 400 billion AED. Banks with an aggregate notional amount of covered transactions
less than or equal to 400 billion AED may choose to set CVA RWA equal to the bank’s RWA for
counterparty credit risk as calculated under the Central Bank’s CCR Standards. The Central Bank
has determined that this threshold is appropriate for the UAE, and is comparable to the 100 Billion
Euro threshold included in Basel.
If a bank chooses this CDS, it must be applied to all of the bank’s covered transactions,
as required under the BCBS framework. In addition, a bank adopting this simple approach may
not recognize the risk-reducing effects of CVA hedges.
The Central Bank may prohibit a bank from using this simple alternative if the Central bank
determines that CVA risk resulting from the bank’s derivative positions and SFTs materially
contributes to the bank’s overall risk, and therefore warrants a more sophisticated approach.
75

[Document: document.pdf, Page 78]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: Are all transactions with Central Counterparties excluded from the CVA capital
calculation?
No, only transactions for which the direct counterparty is a qualifying CCP (QCCP) are excluded.
Note that under the CCR Standard, the bank must have a determination of non-objection from the
Central Bank with regard to any specific QCCP.
Question 2: Should debit valuation adjustment (DVA) be netted from CVA for the capital
calculation?
No, DVA cannot be taken into account to reduce regulatory CVA for the capital calculation.
Question 3: What types of transactions can qualify as CVA hedges?
A CVA hedge can be any financial instrument or contract that refers specifically to the
counterparty by name, and whose value increases when the credit quality of the counterparty
being hedged deteriorates. However, the Standards does not permit "nth-to-default" credit
derivatives (index or basket credit derivatives in which payment is made only on the event of the
“nth” default by a reference entity in the basket, rather than the first default) to be used as CVA
hedges.
Question 4: If a CDS serves as an eligible CVA hedge for one counterparty, does it also
create counterparty exposure to the counterparty for the CDS?
Yes, a CDS or other hedging instrument used for CVA hedging also can create counterparty
exposure, and in that case requires capital to cover the associated risks presented by that
counterparty, including CVA. For example, if a bank has CVA exposure to counterparty A, and
hedges that exposure by purchasing a credit default swap from counterparty B, the CVA charge
for exposure to counterparty A may be reduced, but the bank now likely is exposed to CVA risk
on counterparty B.
Question 5: For calculating the weighted average maturity, should we use the original deal
notional values, or the effective notional values per the CCR standards?
Either approach is acceptable, provided the bank is consistent in its selected approach.
Question 6: If there is no valid netting set with a counterparty, how should average maturity
be calculated?
Average maturity is calculated at the netting set level, for each netting set with each counterparty.
If netting is not valid, then the “netting set” consists of a single transaction, which will have its own
maturity per the contractual terms of the transaction. Without valid netting, there may be as many
“netting sets” for a counterparty as there are derivative transactions with that counterparty.
Question 7: To compute weighted average maturity, we have conservatively treated each
trade as a stand-alone netting set. Is this conservative treatment acceptable?
Yes, this treatment is acceptable.
Question 8: When calculating average maturity for a netting set, should we consider each
asset class separately?
Maturity calculations for CVA must be calculated for each netting set, reflecting all covered
transactions within a given netting set, regardless of asset class.
Question 9: If an entity has ratings from multiple rating agencies, which one should be
76

[Document: document.pdf, Page 79]
CBUAE Classification: Public
used to determine the risk weight for CVA capital?
If there are ratings from two different rating agencies that map to different risk weights, the higher
risk weight should be applied. If there are ratings from three or more rating agencies that map to
different risk weights, the two ratings that correspond to the lowest risk weights should be referred
to. If these two ratings give rise to the same risk weight, that risk weight should be applied. If the
two are different, the higher of the two risk weights should be applied.
Question 10: If a counterparty is within a legal organizational structure that includes
multiple entities with different ratings, which rating should be used for the CVA capital
calculation?
The bank should use the rating for the entity that is actually obligated as a counterparty to the
bank under the terms of the transactions within the applicable netting set.
Question 11: Is there any special CVA treatment for counterparties that have a zero risk
weight for credit risk under the risk-based capital standards?
No, they are treated like all other counterparties (other than CCPs). Note that CVA risk is different
from the more general type of credit risk treated under the risk-based standards. The risk weights
in the CVA standards are intended to reflect credit spread risk, and generally differ from the risk
weights used for other capital requirements. For all counterparties, apply the CVA risk weight that
corresponds to the rating of the entity, or if unrated, apply the approach specified for unrated
counterparties.
Question 12: We prefer to map unrated counterparties to CCC as a conservative treatment;
is that acceptable, or must they be mapped to BBB?
The bank is free to apply a more conservative treatment to unrated counterparties, and should do
so if it considers the more conservative treatment to be appropriate. However, the bank should
be consistent in its approach, and should not apply this process in a way that might reduce
exposure for the CVA calculation relative to the treatment stated in the standards.
Question 13: Should all SFT exposures be considered in scope for the CVA calculation, or
only those that create gross SFT assets per the leverage ratio exposure measure? Will SFT
exposures be classified separately for the computation of Credit RWAs in CAR
computation?
All SFTs should be reflected in the CVA calculation, whether or not they create non-zero gross
SFT asset values for the leverage ratio.
Credit risk capital for SFT exposures is addressed as part of the general credit risk standards for
risk-based capital adequacy requirements.
Question 14: When determining exposure for SFTs, are haircuts to be applied to the fair
value of the securities?
No, haircuts should not be applied – use the fair value without haircuts.
Question 15: Can the weighted average maturity for SFT exposures be based on the
exposure amounts?
Yes, that approach is acceptable, provided it is applied consistently.
Question 16: Can we consider Global Master Repo Agreements signed with banks in the
UAE as qualifying master netting agreements (MNA) for SFT exposure computation?
Banks should apply the requirements for valid netting agreements as stated in the Central Bank’s
Standards for Counterparty Credit Risk to determine whether netting is valid in any particular
case, rather than using broad categorical criteria.
77

[Document: document.pdf, Page 80]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 17: Will the Central Bank establish a specific quantitative materiality threshold
to determine whether SFTs are in scope for CVA capital?
The Central Bank does not intend to establish a specific threshold, but instead will determine the
materiality of CVA risk from SFTs on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all relevant factors
that may affect the CVA risk posed by SFTs at each bank.
Question 18: The CVA guidelines require computation of single-name exposure (SNE),
while the CCR Standards is based on hedging sets; different names may be included in
the same hedging set. Does this create an inconsistency?
It does not. Note that the single “name” for CVA capital is the derivatives or SFT counterparty. It
does not depend on any underlying reference names for credit derivatives or other transactions
with a given counterparty. Suppose for example that a bank has two credit derivatives that depend
on the performance of Company A and Company B (that is, those are the underlying reference
names for the credit derivatives), and that the bank’s counterparty for both credit derivatives is
another bank, Bank C. Under the CCR standards, assuming that the netting requirements are
met, the two credit derivatives would be in a single hedging set within a netting set with Bank C.
For calculation of CVA capital, the SNE would reflect the bank’s CCR exposure to the single
“name” that is Bank C; neither the names nor the ratings of Company A or Company B enter the
CVA calculation directly. The CVA risk-weight for the bank’s CVA capital calculation would depend
on the credit rating of Bank C, not the ratings of either Company A or Company B.
Question 19: Should we multiply the sum of replacement cost and potential future
exposure by the same 1.4 scaling factor used in the SA-CCR standards issued by Central
Bank?
Yes, that is correct; the same multiplicative scaling factor of 1.4 should be used for the CVA
calculation as well.
Question 20: Can banks used the Basic Approach for CVA (BA-CVA) recently published by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2017?
Not at this time. The Central Bank may consider the BA-CVA at a later date.
Question 21: Bank ask in case of calculating discounted counterparty exposure is a double
count and will inflate CVA Capital charge given SA-CCR EAD already factors in maturity
adjustment while computing adjusted notional which is product of trade notional &
supervisory duration?
The use of the discount factor in the CVA capital charge does not result in double counting. While
there is superficial similarity between the supervisory duration (SD) adjustment in SA-CCR and
the discount factor (DF) in CVA, they are actually capturing different aspects of risk exposure.
The use of SD in SA-CCR adjusts the notional amount of the derivatives to reflect its sensitivity
to changes in interest rates, since longer-term derivatives are more sensitive to rate changes than
are shorter-term derivatives. In contrast, the use of DF in the CVA calculation reflects the fact that
a bank is exposed to CVA risk not only during the first year of a derivative contract, but over the
life of the contract; the DF term recognizes the present value of the exposure over the life of the
contract. Thus, these two factors, although they have similar functional forms and therefore
appear somewhat similar, are not in fact duplicative.
Question 22: Further elaboration on "equivalent hedging instrument that directly
references the counterparty being hedged"?
This could be any instrument or contract that refers specifically to the counterparty by name, and
whose value increases when the credit quality of the counterparty being hedged deteriorates.
However, it does not include "nth-to-default" credit derivatives.
Question 23: What if a Bank hold a CVA liability in our books, charged to P&L, once we
78