[Document: document.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
b. Regulatory Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument in case of a capital
event so that they become or, as appropriate, remain, qualified regulatory capital.
However, the amount in case of a capital event can be the outstanding amount or the
amount that qualifies as regulatory capital, if some amount of the instrument is held by the
issuer or whose purchase is funded by the issuer, save where such non-qualification is only
as a result of any applicable limitation on the amount of such capital.
c. Tax Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instruments in case of a tax event.
A tax event may occur at any time on or after the issue date. A tax event can occur as a
result of a change in the applicable tax treatment of the instrument.
Note that both the optional call and the tax call require the Central Bank’s approval.
Changes of Terms and conditions:
a. Insignificant Changes to Terms and Conditions (Variation):
The issuer may vary the terms and conditions of the instrument subject to the condition of
redemption in the Tier capital instrument Standard. Variation of the terms and conditions of the
instrument can occur on optional call regulatory call, or tax call. Changes must be legally
enforceable.
b. Significant Changes to Terms and Conditions:
Significant changes to the terms and conditions of the instrument will require the approval of the
holders. Every instrument that undergoes significant changes needs to meet all requirements of
the Tier Capital Instruments Standard.
Every instrument with changed terms and conditions need to be re-approved by the Central Bank
by applying Stage 2 of the Approval Process in Appendix B of the Tier Capital Instruments
Standard (Stage 1 of the Approval Process can be omitted in this case).
Coupon Payments:
6. No provision should link a change in payments to contractual, statutory or other
obligations, as payments are fully discretionary. Payments should also not be linked to payments
on other Additional Tier 1 instruments.
Dividend and Redemption Restrictions:
7. Dividend stopper arrangements that prevent for example dividend payments on common
shares are not prohibited by the Central Bank. Furthermore, dividend stopper arrangements that
prevent dividend payments on other Additional Tier 1 instruments are not prohibited by Central
Bank. However, stoppers must not impede the full discretion that bank must have at all times to
cancel distributions/payments on the instrument, nor must they act in a way that could hinder the
recapitalization of the bank. For example, it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional
Tier 1 instrument to:
i. attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments on this other
instrument were not also fully discretionary;
ii. prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond the point in time
that dividends/coupons on the instrument are resumed;
iii. impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity (including
acquisitions/disposals).
8. A dividend stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the payment of
19

[Document: document.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary share buybacks. The dividend stopper will
remain until one coupon following the dividend stopper date has been made in full or an amount
equal to the same has been duly set aside or provided for in full for the benefit of the holders of
the instrument.
Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA):
To further clarify the MDA’s calculation, below is an example of the calculation:
Bank Capital Holdings 14.0%
Bank Capital Requirements %
CET1 7.0%
AT1 1.5%
Tier 2 2.0%
Pillar 2 0.0%
Capital Conservation Buffer 2.5%
Countercyclical Buffer 0.000%
D-SIB Buffer 1.5%
Total 14.5%
Combined Buffer 4.0%
Quartile of Buffer 1.0%
Bank Capital Gap 0.5%
Quartile 1 Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Quartile 4
0.0 1.0% 1.0% 2.0% 2.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0%
The bank first will need to fulfill all minimum requirements. As the bank only has CET1 capital
available, it needs to use CET1 capital to fulfill all minimum capital requirements
(10.5%=7%+1.5%+2%). After fulfilling the minimum capital requirements, the bank has still 3.5%
(=14.0%-10.5%) CET1 capital available to fulfill the combined buffer requirements of 4%. Hence,
the Bank’s capital gap is 0.5%.
From the table above 3.5% means that the bank is in the fourth of the buffer requirements.
Therefore, the MDA is restricted to 60% of the bank’s earnings, which means the bank may
distribute no other restrictions and limitations considered, up to 60% of the earnings in the form
of dividend, Additional Tier 1 payments, and variable remuneration.
Note that items considered to be distributions include dividends and share buybacks,
discretionary payments on other Tier 1 capital instruments and discretionary bonus payments to
staff. Payments that do not result in a depletion of CET1, which may for example include certain
scrip dividends, are not considered distributions.
20

[Document: document.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Note also that earnings are defined as distributable profits calculated prior to the deduction of
elements subject to the restriction on distributions. Earnings are calculated after the tax, which
would have been reported had none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact
of making, such distributions are reversed out. Where a bank does not have positive earnings
and has a CET1 ratio less than 9.5%, it would be restricted from making positive net distributions.
Gross-up Clauses:
Gross-up clauses for Additional Tier 1:
9. Gross up clauses are acceptable only if:
i. It is activated by decision of the local tax authority of the issuer and not the investor,
ii. The increased payments do not exceed distributable items,
iii. The gross-up is in relation to the dividend and not the principal.
Gross up Clauses for Tier 2:
10. The second condition related to distributable items is not relevant for Tier 2 instruments,
as Tier 2 coupons are not restricted by the amount of available distributable items. Therefore, Tier
2 gross-up clauses can be considered as acceptable if they are activated by a decision of the
local tax authority of the issuer, and if they relate to dividend and not on principal. The other two
conditions on gross-up clauses are, however, activation is still required by a local tax authority of
the issuer and not the investor, and the gross-up is in relation to the dividend payments only not
principal.
Point of Non-Viability (PONV):
11. The issuance of any new shares as a result of the Point of Non-Viability must occur prior
to any public sector injection of capital so that the capital provided by the public sector is not
diluted.
Further guidance on grandfathering:
12. If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for grandfathering begins its final five-year amortisation
period prior to 1st January 2018, the base for grandfathering in this case must take into account
the amortised amount, not the full nominal amount. As for the rate, if a Tier 2 instrument eligible
for grandfathering begins its final amortisation period on 1st January 2018, then individual
instruments will continue to be amortised at a rate of 20% per year while the grandfathering cap
will be reduced at a rate of 10% per year. Note that each tranche needs to be treated as a separate
tranche.
Amortisation of Tier 2 instruments:
13. During the last 5 years of the eligibility before maturity, the eligibility of Tier 2 instruments
is written down by 20% per year, i.e. the eligible amount is calculated by multiplying:
i. The nominal amount of the instruments on the first day of the final five year period of their
contractual maturity divided by the number of calendar days in that period;
ii. The number of remaining calendar days until the contractual maturity of the instruments.
21

[Document: document.pdf, Page 24]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Documents required to be submitted for the application to issue new Tier Capital
Instruments
1. The CN-01 form should be completed, filled and signed by the bank's Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and Head
of Risk.
2. Full terms and conditions, together with the risk factors relating to the instrument.
i. Instruments of Islamic banks issued through an SPV must also provide the contract
between the bank and the SPV
3. Shareholder Approval:
i. Tier capital instruments require shareholder approval.
ii. The approval shall relate to an issuance of the specific planned Tier capital instrument
(Additional Tier 1 or subordinated Tier 2). Moreover, the approval should clearly mention
that the instrument is subordinated; coupon payments may not be paid under certain
circumstances, and contains a Point of Non-Viability (PONV) condition.
4. Legal opinion letters:
i. Legal Opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
terms and conditions are compliant with the requirements detailed in the Capital
Regulations, Standards and Guidance.
ii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
obligations contained in terms and conditions will constitute legal, valid, binding and
enforceable obligations.
iii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
Self-Assessment of the issuing bank meets the Conditions and the Capital Regulations
5. Capital planning and forecast:
The Business as Usual (BAU) case should be formulated, such as:
a) Amount of assumed issuance and the expected issuance date (e.g. Q1 2018).
b) Capital structure: % in CET1, AT1, Tier 2 and deductions (using Basel 3 capital
components)
c) Five (5) year forecast of the Balance sheet, Profit & loss P&L, Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
d) Amortization of Tier Capital Issuances: Subordinated Tier 2 in the last 5 years prior to
maturity and AT1 Instruments, if they fall under a grandfathering rule, for example, 10%
per year.
e) Key assumptions and analysis (e.g. on balance growth, asset structure, conversation
factors CCF for off balance, operational and market risk, total assets growth, of which
businesses that will be the main driver for such growth) and CRWA (i.e. on balance sheet
exposure in different industry) in numerical as well as qualitative aspect.
6. Stress Testing Scenarios:
The Stress Testing should be submitted in form of a presentation including the underlying data in
Excel sheet.
Two Scenarios should be provided as part of the presentation:
a) Top 2 customers defaulting (point in time analysis permitted: End of Year): Definition of
top 2 customers; name of top 2 customers; exposure (including on and off balance
exposures); what type of eligible collateral and value of collateral, with two sub-scenarios:
i. With average provisioning level of similar assets, and
ii. 75% provisioning level
b) Central Bank’s Macro-Economic Stress Test
 Assumptions and results of the latest Macroeconomic stress tests performed by the
Central Bank.
22

[Document: document.pdf, Page 25]
CBUAE Classification: Public
7. Non-Funding Notice: Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises
control or significant influence can have purchased the instrument, nor can the bank directly
or indirectly have funded the purchase of the instrument.
Private Placements
 Offer letter is required for private placements, including risk factors and the bank's financial
and risk situation.
 Market Conformity Analysis: The bank has to provide evidence on why the pricing of the
instrument conforms to the market rate.
II. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: The last bullet point mentions “Liability accounted instruments must set the
loss absorption trigger at a level of 7.625%.” Is it Central Bank decision to have this trigger
set at 7.625%? Are any triggers likely to be set for equity accounted instruments?
It is Central Bank’s decision for the trigger level. However, the trigger level derives directly from
Basel. Minimum capital requirement plus 0.625%. Note, that the consultation documents do not
consult on a trigger for equity accounted AT1. However, in particular in conjunction with the
development of a recovery/ resolution regulation, the introduction of a trigger level may also be
discussed again, as pointed out in the presentation that was circulated with the Tier capital
instrument documents.
Question 2: Point of Non-Viability mentions that “A Point of Non-Viability means that the
Regulator has determined that the issuer has or will become, Non-Viable without: (a) a
Write-down; or (b) a public injection of capital (or equivalent support).”. We need
clarification as to whether the PONV will be determined by the regulator or the issuer.
Also, please advise under what circumstance will partial Write-down be permitted. The
regulator determines whether the bank is non-viable or not. Partial write-down will be permitted
only for exceptional cases. Explicit examples will not be provided to prevent any expectation.
Question 3: Appendix A: Application Process 1.4: It is mentioned that “Stress Testing with
a stress scenario of top 2 customers are defaulting”. Since many UAE banks have
concentrations in this area, what loss rate needs to be applied in this stress scenario?
Current status quo is two sub scenarios: 75% loss rate and average loss rate of the bank for such
customers.
23

[Document: document.pdf, Page 26]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Credit Risk
I. Introduction
This section provides the guidance for the computation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets
(CRWAs) under the Standardised Approach (SA). This guidance should be read in conjunction
with the Central Bank’s Standard on Credit Risk.
A bank must apply risk weights to its on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet items using
the risk- weighted assets approach. Risk weights are based on credit ratings or fixed risk weights
and are broadly aligned with the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.
A bank may use the ratings determined by an External Credit Assessment Institution
(ECAI) for credit ratings. In general, banks should only use solicited ratings from recognised
ECAIs for the purposes of calculating capital requirement under the SA. However, in exceptional
cases, the bank may use unsolicited ratings with the Central Bank approval.
Note that all exposures subject to the SA should be risk weighted net of specific
allowances and interest in suspense. The guidance must be read in conjunction with
Securitisation, Equity Investments in Funds, Counterparty Credit Risk and Credit Valuation
Guidance.
The guidance set out in this section applies to all exposures in the banking book.
Exposures in the trading book should be captured as part of a bank’s market risk capital
calculations.
II. Clarification and Guiding Principles
A. Claims on Sovereigns