[Document: document.pdf, Page 1]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Guidance re Capital Adequacy of
Banks in the UAE
Version Date: December 2022
0

[Document: document.pdf, Page 2]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Table of content
INTRODUCTION AND SCOPE 1
PILLAR 1 2
I. Tier Capital Supply 3
II. Tier Capital Instruments 18
III. Credit Risk 24
IV. Counterparty Credit Risk 37
V. Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) 67
VI. Equity Investments in Funds 82
VII. Securitisation 90
VIII. Market Risk 99
IX. Operational Risk 123
X. External Credit Assessment Institutions 139
PILLAR 2 149
Pillar 2 – Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) 150
PILLAR 3 181
Pillar 3 – Market Disclosures 182
LEVERAGE RATIO 193
Leverage Ratio 194
0

[Document: document.pdf, Page 3]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Introduction and Scope
This document articulates all guidance that have been drafted for banks in the UAE
with regards to capital.
The Guidance is based closely on requirements of the framework for capital
adequacy developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
This Guidance should be read in conjunction with the associated Standards issued by
the Central Bank (Standards re Capital Adequacy of Banks in the UAE – December
2022).
1

[Document: document.pdf, Page 4]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 1
2

[Document: document.pdf, Page 5]
CBUAE Classification: Public
I. Tier Capital Supply
Introduction
This guidance explains how banks can comply with the Tier Capital Supply Standard. It
must be read in conjunction with the Capital Regulation and Standards for Capital
Adequacy of Banks in the UAE. Guidance regarding Minimum Capital Requirement and
Capital buffer as stated in the document have to be followed by all banks for the
purpose of regulatory compliance.
1. To help and ensure a consistent and transparent implementation of Capital supply
standards, Central Bank will review and update this guidance document periodically.
2. The guidance document has structured into six main sections
1. Scope of Application
2. Eligible capital
3. Regulatory adjustments
4. Threshold deductions
5. Significant investment in commercial entities
6. Frequently Asked Questions
1. Scope of Application
3. “Financial activities” do not include insurance activities and “financial entities” do not
include insurance entities.
4. Examples of the types of activities that financial entities might be involved in include
financial leasing, issuing credit cards, portfolio management, investment advisory, custodial and
safekeeping services and other similar activities that are ancillary to the business of banking
Treatment of investment in Insurance Entities
5. Insurance subsidiaries are to be deconsolidated for regulatory capital purposes (i.e. all
equity, assets, liabilities and third-party capital investments in such insurance entities are to be
removed from the bank’s balance sheet) and the book value of the investment in the subsidiary
is to be included in the aggregate investments.
6. Investments in the capital of insurance entities where the bank owns more than 10% of
the insurance entity’s common share capital will be subject to the “Threshold deductions”
treatment. Amounts below the threshold that are not deducted are to be risk weighted at 250 %.
(Investments in insurance entities wherein ownership is greater than 10% will also include
insurance subsidiaries)
3

[Document: document.pdf, Page 6]
CBUAE Classification: Public
2. Eligible capital
Accumulated other comprehensive income and other disclosed reserve
7. For unrealized fair value reserves relating to financial instruments to be included in CET1
capital banks and their auditor must only recognize such gains or losses that are prudently valued
and independently verifiable (e.g. by reference to market prices). Prior prudent valuations, and
the independent verification thereof, are mandatory.
8. The amount of cumulative unrealized losses arising from the changes in fair value of
financial instruments, including loans/financing and receivables, classified as “available-for-sale”
shall be fully deducted in the calculation of CET1 Capital.
9. Revaluation reserves or cumulative unrealized gains shall be added to CET 1 with a
haircut of 55%.
10. The amount of cumulative unrealized gains arising from the changes in the fair value or
revaluation of bank’s own premises and real estate investment are not allowed to be included as
part of Asset Revaluation reserve for regulatory purposes.
11. IFRS9 will be implemented during 2018. Banks that are impacted significantly from the
implementation of IFRS9 may approach the Central Bank to apply for a transition period for the
IFRS9 impact. Such applications will be analysed and considered on a case-by-case basis.
Retained Earnings
12. The amount reported under accumulated retained earnings (5.1.4.1) should be as per the
audited financial statement at year end and should remain the same for the entire financial year.
13. Current financial year’s/quarter’s profits can only be taken into account after they are
properly audited/ reviewed by the external auditors of the bank. Current financial years /quarter’s
loss if incurred have to be deducted from the capital.
14. Dividend expected/ proposed for the financial year should be reported under 5.1.4.3 and
will be deducted from Retained Earnings/ (Loss) (5.1.4). Expected dividend applies only for Q4
until dividend is actually paid.
15. The dividend deduction must be updated based on each of the following events, if the
amount changes, after Annual General meeting, or the approval from the Central Ban, or the
release of the Financial Statements by the auditors.
16. Other adjustments to the Retained Earnings includes
a. Prudential filter: Partial addback of ECL in accordance with the Regulation Regarding
Accounting Provisions and Capital Requirements - Transitional Arrangements should be
reported under 5.1.4.4 IFRS transitional arrangement.
4

[Document: document.pdf, Page 7]
CBUAE Classification: Public
b. CBUAE Regulatory deductions:
i. Amount exceeding Large Exposure threshold: Any amount that is in violation of
Large Exposure regulation of notice 300/2013 shall be deducted from the capital.
Any amount deducted from CET1 under 5.1.4.5 of the BRF 95 due to a Large
Exposure violation of notice no.226/2018 may be excluded for the calculation of
risk weighted assets. However, amounts that are not deducted must be included
in risk weighted assets. Furthermore, any counterparty credit risk (under CR2a)
associated with such exposure must remain included in the calculation of risk
weighted asset.
ii. Loans to directors: The circular 83/2019 on Corporate Governance regulations for
Banks, under the article (6) “Transaction with Related parties” requires if the
transaction with the related parties are not provided on arm’s length basis, then on
general or case by case basis, deduct such exposure from capital. The deduction
should be reported under 5.1.4.5 of the BRF 95.
Capital Buffers - Countercyclical Buffer
17. The buffer for internationally active banks will be a weighted average of the buffers
deployed across all the jurisdictions to which it has credit exposures. The buffer that will apply to
each bank will reflect the geographic composition of its portfolio of credit exposures. When
considering the jurisdiction to which a private sector credit exposure relates, banks should use,
where possible, an ultimate risk basis; i.e. it should use the country where the guarantor of the
exposure resides, not where the exposure has been booked.
18. Banks will have to look at the geographic location of their private sector credit exposures
(including non-bank financial sector exposures) and calculate their countercyclical capital buffer
requirement as a weighted average of the buffers that are being applied in jurisdictions to which
they have an exposure. Credit exposures in this case include all private sector credit exposures
that attract a credit risk capital charge or the risk weighted equivalent trading book capital charges
for specific risk and securitisation.
19. The weighting applied to the buffer in place in each jurisdiction will be the bank’s total
credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures in that jurisdiction, divided by the
bank’s total credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures across all jurisdictions.
Banks must determine whether the ultimate counterparty is a private sector exposure, as well as
the location of the “ultimate risk”, to the extent possible.
20. The charge for the relevant portfolio should be allocated to the geographic regions of the
constituents of the portfolio by calculating the proportion of the portfolio’s total credit exposure
arising from credit exposure to counterparties in each geographic region.
Please refer to Question 15 of the FAQs below for further guidance and examples of
countercyclical buffers.
5

[Document: document.pdf, Page 8]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3. Regulatory adjustments
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
21. Intangible assets typically do not generate any cash flows and hence their value, when a
bank is in need of immediate additional capital to absorb losses, is uncertain. For this reason, all
intangible assets are deducted from CET1 (5.1.8.1).
22. From regulatory perspective, goodwill and intangible assets have the same meaning as
under IFRS.
23. Capitalized software costs that is not “integral to hardware” is to be treated as an intangible
asset and software that is “integral to hardware” is to be treated as property, plant and equipment
(i.e. as a fixed asset).
24. The amount of intangible assets to be deducted should be net of any associated deferred
tax liability (DTL) that would be extinguished if the asset became impaired or derecognised under
the applicable accounting standards.
25. Goodwill and intangible assets that are deducted from CET1, they are excluded from the
calculation of RWA for credit risk exposure value.
Deferred Tax Assets
26. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) typically arise when a bank:
 suffers a net loss in a financial year and is permitted to carry forward this loss to offset
future profits when calculating its tax bill (net losses carried forward)
 has to reduce the value of an asset on the balance sheet, but this 'loss in value' is not
recognised by the tax authorities until a future period (temporary timing difference)
27. DTAs arising from net losses carried forward have to be deducted in full from a bank's
CET1 (5.1.8.2). This recognises that their value can only be derived through the existence of
future taxable income. On the other hand, a DTA relying on future profitability and arising from
temporary timing differences is subject to the 'threshold deduction rule' (5.1.9.2).
4. Threshold Deduction
28. The purpose of calculating the threshold is to limit the significant investments in the
common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions (banks, insurance and other financial
entities) and deferred tax assets (arising from temporary differences) to 15% of the CET1 after all
deduction (Deduction includes regulatory deductions and the amount of significant investments
in the common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions and deferred tax assets in full).
29. Therefore, significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial
institutions and deferred tax assets may receive limited recognition of 10% CET1 individually (CET
after regulatory adjustment outlined in section 3 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard).
30. The amount that is recognised will receive risk weight of 250% and the remaining amount
will be deducted. See Appendix 5 for example.
6

[Document: document.pdf, Page 9]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Significant investment in commercial entities
31. For purposes of this section, 'significant investments' in a commercial entity is defined as
any investment in the capital instruments of a commercial entity by a bank which is equivalent to
or more than 10% of CET 1 of the bank (after application of regulatory and threshold deduction).
See Appendix 3 for an example.
6. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: When will the Standards, Guidance and Template with regards to Solo reporting be
issued by the Central Bank?
The Central Bank will issue all related material regarding Solo reporting during 2020. Formal
communication will be issued in advance.
Question 2: What is meant by the book value of an investment?
The book value of an investment shall be in accordance with the applicable accounting framework
(IFRS). This valuation must be accepted by an external auditor.
Question 3: Are capital shortfalls of non-consolidated insurance companies to be deducted from
CET1?
Yes, any capital shortfall on a company has to be deducted.
Question 4: If the Bank meets minimum CET1 ratios can the excess CET1 also be counted to meet
AT1 and Total CAR?
Yes.
Question 5: Please clarify whether minority interest related to any other regulated financial entity
(which is not a bank) should be included or not.
Only minority interest of the subsidiary that are subject to the same minimum prudential standards
and level of supervision as a bank be eligible for inclusion in the capital.
Question 6: Is the bank able to include the profit & loss in the year-end CAR calculation before the
issuance of the audited financial statements?
Bank may include interim profit/ yearend profit in CET1 capital only if reviewed or audited by
external auditors. Furthermore, the expected dividend should be deducted in Q4.
Question 7: Is subordinated Debt currently considered Tier 2 as per Basel III, hence no
amortization is required?
Grandfathering rule plus amortization in last 5 years - refer to Standards for Capital Adequacy of
banks in UAE, Tier Capital Supply Standard- paragraph 27 (iv)(b) . Reference should also be
made to the Tier Capital Instruments Standards.
Question 8: Do dividends need to be deducted from CET1 after the proposal from the Board or
after Central Bank approval or after approval from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting?
Please refer to Question 6
7

[Document: document.pdf, Page 10]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 9: How do you treat goodwill and intangible assets arising on an insurance subsidiary?
Should it be considered since the standards mentions insurance subsidiaries are to be completely
deconsolidated and hence there will be no goodwill?
Goodwill and other intangible must be deducted in the calculation of CET1. In particular deduction is also
applied to any goodwill included in the valuation of significant investments in the capital of banking, financial
and insurance entities that are outside the scope of consolidation.
Question 10: Subsidiaries which are used for providing manpower services at cost, should these
be classified as commercial entities or financial entities?
A non-financial sector entity is an entity that is not:
a) a financial sector entity; or
b) a direct extension of banking; or
c) ancillary to banking; or
d) leasing, factoring, the management of unit trusts, the management of data processing
services or any other similar services"
Question 11: Obtain an understanding to the timeline by when the Central Bank may advise specific
Banks of specific countercyclical buffers?
The underlying process for the implementation of countercyclical buffers will be set and
communicated during 2018.
Question 12: Criterion 4 for Additional Tier 1 capital. Can the Central Bank give additional guidance
on what will be considered to be an incentive to redeem?
The following list provides some examples of what would be considered to be an incentive to
redeem:
A call option combined with an increase in the credit spread of the instrument if the call is not
exercised.
A call option combined with a requirement or an investor option to convert the instrument into
shares if the call is not exercised.
A call option combined with a change in reference rate where the credit spread over the second
reference rate is greater than the initial payment rate less the swap rate (ie the fixed rate paid to
the call date to receive the second reference rate). For example, if the initial reference rate is
0.9%, the credit spread over the initial reference rate is 2% (ie the initial payment rate is 2.9%),
and the swap rate to the call date is 1.2%, a credit spread over the second reference rate greater
than 1.7% (2.9-1.2%) would be considered an incentive to redeem.
Conversion from a fixed rate to a floating rate (or vice versa) in combination with a call option
without any increase in credit spread will not in itself be viewed as an incentive to redeem.
However, as required by criteria 5, the bank must not do anything that creates an expectation that
the call will be exercised.
The above is not an exhaustive list of what is considered an incentive to redeem and so banks
should seek guidance from Central Bank on specific features and instruments. Banks must not
expect Central Bank to approve the exercise of a call option for the purpose of satisfying investor
expectations that a call will be exercised.
8

[Document: document.pdf, Page 11]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Question 13: Criteria 4 and 5 for Additional Tier 1 capital. An instrument is structured with a first
call date after 5 years but thereafter is callable quarterly at every interest payment due date (subject
to supervisory approval). The instrument does not have a step-up. Does instrument meet criteria 4
and 5 in terms of being perpetual with no incentive to redeem?
Criterion 5 allows an instrument to be called by an issuer after a minimum period of 5 years. It
does not preclude calling at times after that date or preclude multiple dates on which a call may
be exercised. However, the specification of multiple dates upon which a call might be exercised
must not be used to create an expectation that the instrument will be redeemed at the first call
date, as this is prohibited by criterion.
Question 14: Can an option to call the instrument after five years but prior to the start of the
amortisation period viewed as an incentive to redeem?
No, it can’t be viewed as an incentive to redeem.
Question 15: With regards to countercyclical buffer, what are “private sector credit exposures”?
What does “geographic location” mean? How should the geographic location of exposures on the
banking book and the trading book be identified? What is the difference between (the jurisdiction
of) “ultimate risk” and (the jurisdiction of) “immediate counterparty” exposures?
“Private sector credit exposures” refers to exposures to private sector counterparties which attract
a credit risk capital charge in the banking book, and the risk weighted equivalent trading book
capital charges for specific risk, the incremental risk charge, and securitisation. Interbank
exposures and exposures to the public sector are excluded, but non-bank financial sector
exposures are included. The geographic location of a bank’s private sector credit exposures is
determined by the location of the counterparties that make up the capital charge, irrespective of
the bank’s own physical location or its country of incorporation. The location is identified according
to the concept of “ultimate risk”. The geographic location identifies the jurisdiction that has
announced countercyclical capital buffer add-on rate is to be applied by the bank to the
corresponding credit exposure, appropriately weighted
The concepts of “ultimate risk” and “immediate risk” are those used by the BIS' International
Banking Statistics. The jurisdiction of “immediate counterparty” refers to the jurisdiction of
residence of immediate counterparties, while the jurisdiction of “ultimate risk” is where the final
risk lies. For the purpose of the countercyclical capital buffer, banks should use, where possible,
exposures on an “ultimate risk” basis.
For example, a bank could face the situation where the exposures to a borrower is in one
jurisdiction (country A), and the risk mitigant (e.g. guarantee) is in another jurisdiction (country B).
In this case, the “immediate counterparty” is in country A, but the “ultimate risk” is in country B.
This means that if the bank has a debt claim on an investment vehicle, the ultimate risk exposure
should be allocated to the jurisdiction where the vehicle (or if applicable, its parent/guarantor)
resides. If the bank has an equity claim, the ultimate risk exposure should be allocated
proportionately to the jurisdictions where the ultimate risk exposures of the vehicle resides.
9

[Document: document.pdf, Page 12]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix
Appendix 1: Banking, Securities, insurance and other financial entities - Significant
investment (ownership in the entity more than 10%)
Significant investment (ownership in the entity more than 10% )
Bank's
Entity Investment Listed/ ownership in Investment
Entity
activity Classification Unlisted the entity Amount
(% of Holding)
A Banking Banking Book Listed 40% 60
B Insurance Banking Book Listed 18% 35
C Securities Banking Book Unlisted 16% 28
D Banking Trading Book Listed 11% 18
a. Total significant investment (Banking, Securities, insurance and
other financial entities)
141
b. Bank's CET1 (after applying all the regulatory deduction except section
3.9 and 3.10 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard) 1000
c. Limit (10 % of bank's CET1) 100
d. Amount to be deducted from bank's CET1 41
e. Amount not deducted to considered for aggregate threshold deduction 100
The remaining amount of 100 is to be distributed amongst the investments on a pro rata / proportionate
basis and risk weighted at 250% (assuming no threshold deduction apply).The total of 250 RWA (100
*250%) will be distributed as follows.
Calculation of
as a % of all
Investment Investment amount not Risk
Entity such RWA Section
Classification Amount deducted to be risk weight
investment
weighted
A Banking Book 60 42% 43 (100 x 43%) 250% 106.38 Credit Risk
B Banking Book 35 25% 25 (100 x 25%) 250% 62.06 Credit Risk
C Banking Book 28 20% 20 (100 x 20%) 250% 49.65 Credit Risk
D Trading Book 18 13% 13 (100 x 13%) Equity Risk - Market risk section
141 100% 100
10

[Document: document.pdf, Page 13]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 2: Banking, Securities, insurance and other financial entities - Investment
with ownership not more than 10%
Investment (ownership not more than 10%)
Bank's
Investment Listed/ ownership in Investment
Entity Entity activity
Classification Unlisted the entity Amount
(% of Holding)
Banking
E Banking Book Listed 10% 50
Trading
F Banking Book Listed 3% 11
Banking
G Securities Book Unlisted 8% 40
Banking
H Insurance Book Listed 2% 9
a.Total investment (Banking, Securities, insurance and other financial
entities)
110
b. Bank's CET1 (after applying all the regulatory deduction except
section 3.9 and 3.10 of the Tier Capital Supply Standards) 1000
c. Limit (10% of bank's CET1)
100
d. Amount to be deducted from bank's CET1 (a-c)
10
e. Amount not deducted to be risk weighted (Remaining amount) (a-d)
100
The remaining amount of 75 is to be distributed amongst the investments on a pro rata /
proportionate basis and risk weighted as stated below
Invest as a % of all Calculation of
Investment Listed/
Entity ment such amount not Risk weight
Classification Unlisted RWA Section
Amount investment deducted to be risk
weighted
Banking 45.50 (100 x 34.5 Credit
E Book 50 45.5% 45.5 %) Listed 100% 0 Risk
Trading 10 (100 x Equity Risk - Market risk
F Book 11 10.0% 10.00%) Listed section
Banking Book 36.4 (100 x Unlist 40.5 Credit
G 40 36.4% 36.4%) ed 150% 0 Risk
Banking 8.2 (100 x Credit
H Book 9 8.2% 8.2%) Listed 100% 6.00 Risk
110 100% 100
11

[Document: document.pdf, Page 14]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 3: Significant investments in commercial entities.
Individual Investment Limit Check and its treatment
Bank's CET1 (after applying all the regulatory and threshold deduction) 1000
Individual Limit (10% of bank's CET1D) 100
Step 1: Individual Limit check
Significant investments in commercial entities
Amount
Amount
as a %
Entity Investment Listed/ Investment Significant to RW Remaining
Entity of
activity Classification Unlisted Amount Investment at amount
bank's
952%
CET1
I Commercial Banking Book Listed 140 14% Yes 40 100
J Commercial Banking Book Listed 120 12% Yes 20 100
K Commercial Banking Book Unlisted 110 11% Yes 10 100
L Commercial Banking Book Listed 115 12% Yes 15 100
M Commercial Banking Book Listed 75 8% No 75
N Commercial Banking Book Listed 45 5% No 45
O Commercial Banking Book Listed 50 5% No 50
655 85 570
Risk weighting at 952% on account of 10% threshold on individual basis is 85.
Step 2: Aggregate Limit check
Aggregate of remaining amount of investments after 10% deduction
(entity I,J,K,L,M,N & O) 570
Aggregate Limit (25% of bank's CET1) 250
The amount to be risk-weighted at 952% based on the 25% threshold on
aggregate basis 250
Remaining amount of investments to be risk-weighted under the applicable risk
320
weighting rules (100% RW for listed and 150% unlisted)
Total amount to be risk weighted at 952%: 335 (85 + 250)
12

[Document: document.pdf, Page 15]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 4: Minority interest illustrative example
This Appendix illustrates the treatment of minority interest and other capital issued out of
subsidiaries to third parties, which is set out in section 2.7 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard
(Paragraph 35 to 41).
A banking group consists of two legal entities that are both banks. Bank P is the parent, Bank S
is the subsidiary, and their unconsolidated balance sheets are set out below
Amount Amount
Bank P Balance sheet Bank S Balance sheet
(AED) (AED)
Assets Assets
Loan to customers 100 Loan to customers 150
Investment in CET 1 of Bank S 7
Investment in AT1 of Bank S 4
Investment in T2 of Bank S 2
Total Assets 113 Total Assets 150
Liabilities and Equities Liabilities and Equities
Depositors 70 Depositors 127
Common Equity (CET1) 26 Common Equity (CET1) 10
Additional Tier1 (AT1) 7 Additional Tier1 (AT1) 5
Tier 2 10 Tier 2 8
Total Liabilities and Equities 113 Total Liabilities and Equities 150
The balance sheet of Bank P shows that in addition to its loans to customers, it owns 70% of the
common shares of Bank S, 80% of the Additional Tier 1 of Bank S and 25% of the Tier 2 capital
of Bank S. The ownership of the capital of Bank S is therefore as follows:
Capital issued by Bank S
Amount Issued to Amount Issued
Total
Parent to third party
Common Equity (CET1) 7 3 10
Additional Tier1 (AT1) 4 1 5
Tier 1 11 4 15
Tier 2 2 6 8
Total Capital (TC) 13 10 23
13