[Document: PII.pdf, Page 11]
CBUAE Classification: Public
integrated with the bank’s strategy, governance, risk-appetite statement, recovery plans,
internal controls, stress tests, and internal reporting (MIS).
58. Each bank should elaborate on the linkage and consistency between their strategic
decisions, risk appetite, and the resources allocated for achieving those strategies. The bank
should articulate the frequency of monitoring and quantifying changes in its financial
projections (e.g. balance sheet, profit and loss, and concentrations) regularly to verify that they
are consistent with the business model, risk appetite, and the achievement of the bank’s
strategic goals.
59. An effective BMA enables banks to identify vulnerabilities at an early stage and assess
their ability to adapt to changes in their specific operating environment therefore helps to
promote the safety and soundness of banks. A well-designed and comprehensive BMA
approach provides banks with the basis to understand, analyse, assess the sustainability of
their business models, enhance proactive, forward-looking operations, and strategy
evaluation.
60. Each bank’s business model should be based on analyses and realistic assumptions
(stress tests, scenario analyses, and driver analyses, etc.) about the effect of strategic choices
on financial and economic outcomes of operations performed. This will enable the bank and
the Central Bank to understand the nature of the business model and the inherent risks. Each
bank should perform an analysis that involves identifying, challenging the dependency of
strategies on uncontrollable external factors, and assumptions (e.g. market interest rates,
demand growth in the target customer markets, degree of competition in the markets, cost of
entry, and compliance costs).
61. An effective BMA addresses the banks’ ability to produce aggregate financial data
across the banking group as a whole, and the bank solo level, for each of its main business
units and business lines. Moreover, to make the best use of this data and transform it into
relevant inputs, banks need to develop and use analytical tools including stress tests, peer
group assessments, profitability forecasts and analysis, and scenario analyses.
62. The documentation provided in support of the business model should contain an
overview of the business activities of the bank and anoverview of the structure/organisational
details of the bank. For example a brief description of the business model, present financial
condition, any expected changes in the present business model, the expected future business
environment, business plans, and the projected financial condition for the following year.
63. The following additional information and documentation should be referenced (if not
part of) the ICAAP report:
(i) Bank’s strategic plan(s) with current-year, forward-looking forecasts, and
underlying economic assumptions;
(ii) Financial reporting (e.g. profit and loss (P&L), and balance sheet), covering the
most recent period and the whole (forward-looking) ICAAP reporting period;
(iii) Internal reporting (e.g. management information, capital reporting, liquidity
reporting, and internal risk reporting);
(iv) Recovery plans, including the results of resolvability assessment, if any, and
identification of critical functions;
(v) Third-party reports (e.g. audit reports, and reports by equity/credit analysts),
states their main concerns and issues;
159

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 12]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(vi) A descriptive report on the main business lines generating revenues broken
down by main products, services, other activities, geographies, and market
position; and
(vii) Peer group analysis segregated by competitor bank, product, or business lines
targeting the same source of profits and customers (e.g. credit card businesses
targeting consumers at a particular economic stratum in a specific country.
64. Business model analysis may act as a base for the development of Reverse Stress
Test scenarios.
B. Credit Risk
65. Credit risk is the risk of losses arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet
its obligations as they fall due. Each bank should assess all its credit exposures and determine
whether the risk weights applied to such exposures under the regulatory standardised
approach for credit risk (Standardised Approach) are appropriate for the inherent risk of the
exposures. Each bank should have the ability to assess credit risk at the portfolio level as well
as at the exposure or counterparty level.
66. To ensure that each bank has sufficient capital allocated for credit risk, each bank
should compare their capital consumption under two methods for all credit exposures across
all asset classes: (i) the Standardised Approach and (ii) an estimation under the foundation
internal-rating based approach (F-IRB) in the Basel Framework (“IRB approach: risk weight
functions”, CRE31).
67. The Central Bank recognises that some banks may not have appropriately calibrated
probability of defaults (PDs) for the calculation of the F-IRB approach. In the absence of such
calibration, banks should rely on their 1-year PD used for IFRS provisioning purposes. Each
bank should undertake this comparison at asset class level, where higher F-IRB numbers
indicate additional required capital. Drivers of material differences between the two
approaches should be explained.
68. If a bank uses credit risk mitigation techniques (CRMT), it should analyse and evaluate
the risks associated to such mitigation under Pillar 2 risks measurement. The bank should
analyse potential effects, the enforceability and the effectiveness of such CRMT, in particular
in the case of real estate collaterals in order to estimate residual credit risk with prudence.
C. Market Risk
69. Market risk is the risk of losses in on- and off-balance sheet positions arising from
movements in market factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices,
commodities prices, credit spreads, and options volatilities. Each bank should have
methodologies and limits that enable it to assess and actively manage all material market risks,
at several levels of granularity including position, desk, business line, or firm-wide level.
70. Under its ICAAP, each bank should assess its capital adequacy for market risk by
considering methods other than the regulatory standardised approach for market risk. Each
bank should start this assessment with the metrics already employed to measure market risk
as part of regular risk management, including net open positions (NOP), value-at-risk (VaR),
stressed VaR, and economic stress tests. The calibration of capital associated to Pillar 2 risks
should be undertaken with prudence and should include risks such as concentration risk,
market illiquidity, basis risk, and jump-to-default risk.
71. Ultimately, market risk capital should be designed to protect the bank against market
risk volatility over the long term, including periods of stress and high volatility. Therefore, each
160

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 13]
CBUAE Classification: Public
bank should ensure that such calibration include appropriate stressed periods. The analysis
should be structured based on the bank’s key drivers of market risk, including portfolios, asset
classes, market risk factors, geographies, product types and tenors.
72. Each bank should analyse its amortised cost portfolio under Pillar 2, considering the
difference between the market value against the book value.
D. Operational Risk
73. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes,
people, or systems, or external events. This definition includes legal risk and compliance risk
but excludes strategic and reputational risk. The framework for operational risk management
should cover the bank’s appetite and tolerance for operational risks, and the manner and
extent to which operational risk is transferred outside the bank.
74. Operational risk is a recurrent and a material source of losses for many banks but the
existing approaches (the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA), the Standardised Approach (SA),
and the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)) for calculating Pillar 1 operational risk
capital may not reliably reflect the nature and scale of potential operational risk losses. The
Pillar 1 Standardised Approach for operational risk uses gross income as a measure of capital.
Gross income is a risk-insensitive proxy for operational risk capital, which may lead banks to
underestimate the risk. This was evident during the economic downturn in 2009, when banks’
income dropped, lowering their regulatory operational risk capital requirement, yet operational
risks were either constant or even elevated in some cases. Therefore, banks should ensure
that their Pillar 2 capital charge covers operational risks that are not captured by regulatory
capital methodologies. The analysis should include a robust and conservative forecast of
operational risk losses and respective capital requirements (at least split into conduct and non-
conduct risks).
75. Legal risk is considered an operational risk. Each bank is required to analyse, assess,
and quantify the impact of legal risk failures on its capital structure. Examples of legal risk
include inadequate documentation, legal, regulatory incapacity, the insufficient authority of a
counterparty, and contract invalidity/ unenforceability. The Legal department of each bank bear
responsibility for the identification and management of this risk. They must consult with internal
and external legal counsel. Subsidiaries and branches of major international banking groups
typically have in-house legal departments, acting under the guidance of the group, which aims
to facilitate the business of the group, by providing proactive, business-oriented advice. The
outcome of legal and/or regulatory issues to which the bank is currently exposed, and others,
which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict and, consequently, there can be no
assurance that the outcome of a legal matters will not be material to the financial condition of
the bank.
76. Given the potential impact from operational risk, each bank should evaluate under
Pillar 2 risks arising from business conduct risks and money laundering / financing of terrorism.
In addition, each bank should consider internal and external operational risks faced by it,
including but not limited to operational cyber risk, IT risks, and outsourcing, and each bank is
expected to consider ways in which it can improve its operational resilience. Each bank should
provide details in the ICAAP report on the outcome of its Risk Control Self-Assessment (RCSA)
process to collate bottom-up operational risk drivers across businesses.
77. Each bank should undertake quantitative stress testing based on its historical loss data
and operational risk profile.
E. Credit Concentration Risk
78. Section V.D of the ICAAP Standard requires banks to address weaknesses at the
161

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 14]
CBUAE Classification: Public
portfolio level including credit concentrations risk. Credit concentration risk is the incremental
credit loss in a portfolio of credit exposures, caused by high correlation between the credit risk
drivers of those exposures. Such concentration risk arises mostly due to high correlations and
dependencies between individual obligors (name concentration) or between economic sectors
(sectoral concentration). Credit concentration risk can affect a bank’s health or core operations,
liquidity, earnings and capital ratios. The Central Bank considers concentration risk as a key
material Pillar 2 risk for all UAE banks.
79. Consequently, credit concentration arises when large exposures are associated with a
small number of obligors or a small number of sectors, but not only. Credit concentration risk
can arise from a seemingly granular portfolio but with high correlation between the obligors’
risk drivers.
80. In accordance with the Central Bank re Large Exposures - Credit Concentrations Limits
(Notice No.226/2018), an exposure is deemed large if it accounts for more than 10% of a
bank’s capital. Such threshold has been implemented for regulatory purposes. The
measurement of concentration risk for risk management purposes and for determining Pillar 2
risk capital requirements should refer to the wider definition of concentration risk. Each bank
is exposed to a degree of concentration risk, even when complying with the Large Exposure
Regulation.
81. Each bank should perform a detailedrisk analysis specific to the Real Estate exposures
(RE) of the bank and the Central Bank re Standards for Real Estate Exposures (Notice No.
5733/2021).
82. Credit concentration risk is a common feature of UAE banks, but currently the Central
Bank regulations for banks do not include an explicit Pillar 1 capital requirement for name and
sector concentration risk. Credit concentration risk is a key prudential risk for which the capital
requirement is at the discretion of banks, and it should be held under Pillar 2. This risk should
warrant particular attention from each bank. In particular:
(i) For the purpose of risk management, each bank should ensure that credit
concentration risk is pro-actively and efficiently addressed. Each bank should
develop policies and procedures for the identification, measurement, monitoring,
and reporting of credit concentration risk. Credit concentration risk arises from
exposures to obligors structured as conglomerates. Therefore each bank should
have a mechanism in place to identify and aggregate exposures across related
entities based on their legal relationships. Data should be aggregated across
systems operated by different business units or entities. This should be indicated
through the bank’s management information system (MIS);
(ii) For the purpose of estimating the Pillar 2 capital associated with credit
concentration risk, each bank should build upon the methodologies employed
for risk management. These methods should be developed further, as deemed
appropriate, in order to fully measure the additional capital. Each bank should
compare several methodologies and propose a choice based on clear and
documented justification. At a minimum, each bank should calculate and report
the additional capital using the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) methodology;
and
(iii) For the purpose of capital planning, each bank should ensure that concentration
risk is taken into account adequately within its ICAAP. Each bank should assess
the amount of capital, which it consider adequate to hold given the level of
concentration risk in their portfolios and given their business plan and the
expected economic environment.
162

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 15]
CBUAE Classification: Public
F. Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB)
83. IRRBB is the risk of loss in the banking book caused by changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk can arise both in the banking book and/or the trading book. While interest rate
risk in the trading book is addressed under the Pillar 1 market risk framework, the interest rate
risk in the banking book should be addressed under Pillar 2. Conventional banks refer to this
risk as IRRBB while Islamic banks are exposed to the analogous risk called profit rate risk in
the banking book (PRRBB).
84. Each bank should define a risk appetite pertaining to IRRRB that should be approved
by the Board and implemented through a comprehensive risk appetite framework, i.e. policies
and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB. Each bank should have a process
supported by adequate policies to manage IRRBB appropriately.This involves, as for any other
risk, comprehensive identification, measurement, reporting, monitoring, and mitigation.
85. The measurement process should be based upon several existing Standards and
Guidance:
(i) Central Bank “Standards re Capital Adequacy of Banks in the UAE - ICAAP
Standards”;
(ii) Central Bank “Regulation and Standards re Interest Rate & Rate of Return Risk
in the Banking Book” in 2018 (Notice 3021/2018 and Circular 165/2018);
(iii) Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance in 2022 (Notice
5052/2022); and
(iv) Basel Framework - Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (SRP 31).
Measurement
86. The assessment should include all positions of each bank’s potential basis risk, re-
pricing gaps, commercial margins, gaps for material currencies optionality, and non-maturing
deposits. The quantitative impact analysis should be supported by description and analysis of
the key assumptions made by the bank, in particular, assumptions regarding loan
prepayments, the behaviour of non-maturity deposits (CASA), non-rated sensitive assets,
contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable-rate items, and measuring the
frequency of the interest rate risk in the banking book.
87. DSIBs and other banks with significant interest rate risk (IRR) exposure should
compute the economic value of equity (EVE) at a granular facility level, while non-DSIBs may
compute EVE at exposure level, which is based upon the summation of discounted gap risk
across time buckets, rather than a granular net present value (NPV) estimation at exposure
level.
Scenarios
88. For the purpose of capital calibration, each bank should employ the interest rate shock
scenarios corresponding to Table 12 of Central Bank Model Management Guidance and table
2 of the SRP 31 for their AED and non-AED positions respectively.
89. In addition to the standard shocks prescribed above, DSIBs and other banks with
significant exposure to interest rate risk are expected to apply further shocks/ idiosyncratic
scenarios, which will takeinto account:
 The bank’s inherent risk profile;
163

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 16]