[Document: document.pdf, Page 101]
CBUAE Classification: Public
VIII. Market Risk
I. Introduction and scope
This section supports the Market risk standards in clarifying the calculation of the market
risk capital requirement.
The capital charges for interest rate related instruments and equities will apply to the
trading book. The capital charges for foreign exchange risk and for commodities risk will apply to
banks’ total currency and commodity positions (i.e. entire book).
Capital requirements for market risk apply on a consolidated basis. Note that the capital
required for general and specific market risk under these Standards is in addition to, not in place
of, any capital required under other Central Bank Standards. Banks should follow the
requirements of all other applicable Central Bank standards to determine overall capital adequacy
requirements.
II. Identifying Market Risk Drivers
For a particular instrument, the risk drivers that influence the market prices of that
instrument must be identified. In a portfolio, the correlations between instruments also influence
the risk profile of the entire portfolio (i.e. Banking and Trading book).
The market price of an asset incorporates virtually all known information concerning that
asset. In practice; however, it is very difficult to clearly separate the main sources that influence
an instrument's market price and risk level.
As a simplification, the following are generally recognised as the main market risk drivers:
A. Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the potential for losses in on- or off-balance sheet positions from
adverse changes in interest rates. Instruments covered by the standardised approach for interest
rate risk include all fixed rate and floating rate related instruments, such as debt securities, swaps,
forwards and futures.
The standardised approach provides a framework for measuring interest rate risk. It takes
into account the maturity or duration of the positions, basis risk, and certain correlations among
risk factors.
Duration is a measure of the average maturity of a debt instrument's cash flows from both
coupons and principal repayment. It is expressed in years and allows debt instruments with
different coupons and maturities to be compared. Based on the duration, the sensitivity of a fixed
income security's price with respect to a small change in its yield can be determined.
When hedging positions, basis risk is a key risk for the hedged position and needs to be
managed and closely monitored.
Typically, two distinct components of market risk are recognised:
99

[Document: document.pdf, Page 102]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. General Market Risk
General market risk refers to changes in market prices resulting from general market
behavior.
For example, in the case of an equity position, general market risk can arise from a change in a
stock market index. In the case of a fixed income instrument, general market risk is driven by a
change in the yield curve.
The capital charge for general market risk is designed to capture the risk of loss arising from
adverse changes in market interest rates.
There are two steps for calculating the general market risk capital charge:
Step 1: Map each interest rate position to a time band
Interest rate positions have different price sensitivities to interest rate shifts depending on their
residual maturity. Interest rate shifts are changes in the yield curve. Each interest rate position is
mapped to a time band.
There are two methods for mapping interest rate positions:
a) Maturity method
This Method maps each position to a maturity ladder based on the residual maturity of each
position.
Fixed weightings are used to adjust the positions for sensitivity to the changes in interest rates as
per the relevant table under the standard.
Time Bands for the Maturity Method
 Fixed income instruments with low coupons have higher sensitivity to changes in the yield
curve than fixed income instruments with high coupons, all other things being equal.
 Fixed income instruments with long maturities have higher sensitivity to changes in the
yield curve than fixed income instruments with short maturities, all other things being
equal.
This is why the maturity method uses a finer grid of time bands for low coupon instruments (less
than 3%) with long maturities.
Fixed and Floating Rate Instruments
Fixed rate instruments are mapped according to the residual term to maturity. Floating
rate instruments are allocated according to the residual term to the next repricing date.
b) Duration method
This method maps each position according to its duration to a duration ladder. Duration is
a measure of the average maturity of a debt instrument’s cash flows from both coupons and
principal repayment. It is expressed in years and allows debt instruments with different coupons
and maturities to be compared. The duration method allows banks the necessary capability to
calculate price sensitivity based on an instruments’ duration (with the supervisory consent).
Step 2: Calculate the capital charge
100

[Document: document.pdf, Page 103]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The capital charge is the sum of four components calculated from amounts in each time band:
 A charge on the net short or long position in the whole trading book:
 A vertical disallowance charge:
It is a charge, which is levied on the matched position in each time band. This charges accounts
for basis risk and gap risk, which can arise because each time band includes different instruments
with different maturities. Gap risk, or interest mismatch risk, is the risk of losses due to interest
rate changes that arise when the periods over which assets and liabilities are priced, differs. This
charge is levied on the matched position in each time band at:
 10% if the bank uses the maturity method
 5% of the bank uses the duration method
The matched position is the smaller absolute value of the long and short positions. For example:
if you have a long position of 1,200 and a short position of 700, the matched position is 700 (the
net open position is long 500).
 A horizontal disallowance charge:
It is a charge against correlation among the different time bands. It is allowed for correlation to
offset positions across different time bands.
There are three rounds of horizontal disallowance:
 Round 1 levies a charge on the matched position in each zone. The charge is:
o 40% for zone 1
o 30% for zone 2 and zone 3
 Round 2 levies a charge of 40% on the matched positions between adjacent zones. The
adjacent zones are:
o Zone 1 and zone 2
o Zone 2 and zone 3
 Round 3 levies a charge of 100% on the matched position between zone 1 and zone 3.
 Where applicable, a net charge for positions in options.
2. Specific Risk
Specific risk refers to changes in market prices specific to an instrument owing to factors
related to the issuer of that instrument.
Specific risk does not affect foreign exchange- and commodities-related instruments. This
is because changes in FX rates and commodities prices are dependent on general market
movements.
101

[Document: document.pdf, Page 104]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The charge for specific risk protects against price movements in a security owing to factors
related to the individual issuer, that is, price moves that are not initiated by the general market.
a) Offsetting
When specific risk is measured, offsetting between positions is restricted.
 Offsetting is only permitted for matched positions in an identical issue.
 Offsetting is not allowed between different issues, even if the issuer is the same. This is
because differences in coupon rates, liquidity, call features, and so on, mean that prices
may diverge in the short run.
b) Specific Risk – Capital Charge
Under the standardised approach, market risk exposures are categorised according to
external credit assessments (ratings) and based on those assessments a capital charge is
assigned. This broad methodology for calculating the specific risk capital charge was not changed
by Basel 2.5.
The capital charges assigned to those external credit assessments are similar to the credit
risk charges under the standardised approach to credit risk.
Categorisation of Securities
Consistent with other sections, a lower specific risk charge can be applied to government
paper denominated in the domestic currency and funded by the bank in the same currency. The
national discretion is limited to GCC Sovereigns. This use of national discretion aligns the Market
Risk Standards with the similar treatment under the credit risk standards. The Market Risk
Standard is also aligned to the Credit Risk Standard when it comes to the transition period
permitted for USD funded and denominated exposures of the individual Emirates.
Qualifying includes securities issued by public sector entities and multilateral development
banks, plus other securities that are rated with investment grades by two rating agencies. Unrated
securities can also be included, subject to supervisory approval (such as securities deemed to be
of comparable investment quality).
Other securities comprise of securities that do not meet the definition of government or the
definition of qualifying securities. This category receives the same risk charge as non-investment
grade borrowers under the standardised approach to credit risk. However, it is recognised that for
some high yielding debt instruments, an 8% specific risk charge may underestimate the specific
risk.
Calculating the Capital Requirement for Market and Credit Risk
The standards contain different processes for calculating the capital requirement for
market and credit risk. For credit risk, assets are first risk weighted (by multiplying them by a risk
weight) and then a capital requirement is applied. In contrast, for market risk, exposures are
simply multiplied by a specific risk capital charge. For an exposure with a given external credit
assessment (rating), the specific risk capital charge is the same as the capital requirement
calculated under the standardised approach for credit risk.
102

[Document: document.pdf, Page 105]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Specific Risk – Capital Charge for Positions Covered Under the Securitisation
Framework
Following the 2009 enhancements to the BCF, the specific risk of securitisation positions
held in the trading book are generally calculated in the same way as securitisation positions in the
banking book.
Specific risk – the capital charges for positions covered under the standardised approach
for securitisation exposures.
The default position for unrated securitisations can be thought of as a capital charge of
100 percent (that is, equivalent to a risk weight of 1250 percent where the capital charge is 8
percent).
Where the specific risk capital charge for an exposure is 100% such that capital is held for
the full value of the exposure, it may be excluded from the calculation of the capital charge for
general market risk. For further details, please refer to the securitisation framework.
Treatment of Interest Rate Derivatives
The interest rate risk measurement system should include all interest rate derivatives and
off-balance sheet instruments assigned to the trading book that are sensitive to changes in
interest rates.
The derivatives are converted into positions in the relevant underlying. These positions
are subject to the general market risk charges and, where applicable, the specific risk charges for
interest rate risk. The amounts reported should be the market value of the principal amount of the
underlying or notional underlying.
For instruments where the apparent notional amount differs from the effective notional
amount, banks will use the effective notional amount.
Interest rate derivatives include:
 forward rate agreements (FRAs)
 other forward contracts
 bond futures
 interest rate swaps
 cross currency swaps
 forward foreign exchange positions
 interest rate options
Refer to the examples below in this section for numerical illustrations
B. Equity Risk
Market risk can be influenced by changes in equity prices, that is, equity risk.
Equity risk is the risk that movement in equity prices will have a negative effect on the
value of equity positions. The capital charge for equity risk is the sum of the charges for general
and specific market risk.
103

[Document: document.pdf, Page 106]
CBUAE Classification: Public
The Central Bank sets out a minimum capital standard to cover the risk of equity positions
held in the trading book. It applies to long and short positions in all instruments that exhibit
behavior similar to equities, with the exception of non-convertible preference shares, which fall
under interest rate risk requirements.
1. Capital Charges for Equity Risk
To calculate the minimum capital charge for equity risk, you must calculate two separate
charges:
 A general market risk charge of 8% is applied to the net overall position.
 A specific risk charge of 8% is applied to the gross equity position. After offsetting long
and short positions in the same issue, a bank's gross equity position is the sum of the
absolute values of all long equity positions and all short equity positions.
Since banks may hold equities in different national markets, separate calculations for
general and specific risk must be carried out for each of these markets.