[Document: PII.pdf, Page 10 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
by the bank and well suited for, and tailored to, its business and its risk profile.
50. The identification of risks should result in distinct types:
(i) Pillar 1 risks that are not fully captured and that are covered by insufficient
capital. For instance, the market risk capital consumption under Pillar 1 might
not incorporate sufficient basis risk; and
(ii) Risks that are not captured at all as part of the Pillar 1 framework.
51. Each bank should not develop separate methodologies for risk measurement, if those
are not employed for risk management. The Use Test assumes that the method and conclusion
of the ICAAP should be coherent with the bank’s internal practices.
52. To ensure an adequate assessment of high quality, each bank should establish, and
implement an effective data quality framework, to deploy adequate processes, and control
mechanisms to ensure the quality of data. The data quality framework should ensure reliable
risk information that supports sound decision-making, covers all relevant risk data, and data
quality dimensions.
53. The next sections contain explanations and expectations on certain risk types (e.g.
Business Model Analysis (BMA) and strategic risk, Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,
and Credit concentration risk).
A. Business Model Analysis (BMA) and Strategic Risk
54. Business model analysis embodies the risk that the bank has failed to structure its
organisation and operations (expertise, systems, and processes) in a way that leads to
achieving its primary business and strategic objectives.
55. Strategic risks arise when the bank’s business model, organisation structure,
operations, and/or strategy are no longer adequate to deliver the objective of the bank as
specified by the Board.
56. The bank should conduct regular business model analysis (BMA) to assess its
business and strategic risks to determine:
(i) The ability of the bank’s current business model to deliver suitable results over
the following 12 months;
(ii) The sustainability of the bank’s strategy and its ability to deliver suitable/
acceptable results over a forward-looking period of at least three (3) to five (5)
years, based on the strategic plansand financial planning;
(iii) The sustainability and sufficient diversification of income over time (three (3) to
five (5) years). This analysis should consider the sources and levels of income
and expenses; and
(iv) The ability of the bank to deliver total financial data across the group and for
each of its key business units (includes forward-looking performance and
profitability).
57. An effective BMA contains a through-the-cycle view of the sustainability of the business
model in its current state and against a projected view of the bank’s funding structure, return
on equity (ROE), capital supply, and capital demand, the effect this has on the product, service
pricing, and resource requirements. The business planning should be clear, aligned, and
158

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 11]
CBUAE Classification: Public
integrated with the bank’s strategy, governance, risk-appetite statement, recovery plans,
internal controls, stress tests, and internal reporting (MIS).
58. Each bank should elaborate on the linkage and consistency between their strategic
decisions, risk appetite, and the resources allocated for achieving those strategies. The bank
should articulate the frequency of monitoring and quantifying changes in its financial
projections (e.g. balance sheet, profit and loss, and concentrations) regularly to verify that they
are consistent with the business model, risk appetite, and the achievement of the bank’s
strategic goals.
59. An effective BMA enables banks to identify vulnerabilities at an early stage and assess
their ability to adapt to changes in their specific operating environment therefore helps to
promote the safety and soundness of banks. A well-designed and comprehensive BMA
approach provides banks with the basis to understand, analyse, assess the sustainability of
their business models, enhance proactive, forward-looking operations, and strategy
evaluation.
60. Each bank’s business model should be based on analyses and realistic assumptions
(stress tests, scenario analyses, and driver analyses, etc.) about the effect of strategic choices
on financial and economic outcomes of operations performed. This will enable the bank and
the Central Bank to understand the nature of the business model and the inherent risks. Each
bank should perform an analysis that involves identifying, challenging the dependency of
strategies on uncontrollable external factors, and assumptions (e.g. market interest rates,
demand growth in the target customer markets, degree of competition in the markets, cost of
entry, and compliance costs).
61. An effective BMA addresses the banks’ ability to produce aggregate financial data
across the banking group as a whole, and the bank solo level, for each of its main business
units and business lines. Moreover, to make the best use of this data and transform it into
relevant inputs, banks need to develop and use analytical tools including stress tests, peer
group assessments, profitability forecasts and analysis, and scenario analyses.
62. The documentation provided in support of the business model should contain an
overview of the business activities of the bank and anoverview of the structure/organisational
details of the bank. For example a brief description of the business model, present financial
condition, any expected changes in the present business model, the expected future business
environment, business plans, and the projected financial condition for the following year.
63. The following additional information and documentation should be referenced (if not
part of) the ICAAP report:
(i) Bank’s strategic plan(s) with current-year, forward-looking forecasts, and
underlying economic assumptions;
(ii) Financial reporting (e.g. profit and loss (P&L), and balance sheet), covering the
most recent period and the whole (forward-looking) ICAAP reporting period;
(iii) Internal reporting (e.g. management information, capital reporting, liquidity
reporting, and internal risk reporting);
(iv) Recovery plans, including the results of resolvability assessment, if any, and
identification of critical functions;
(v) Third-party reports (e.g. audit reports, and reports by equity/credit analysts),
states their main concerns and issues;
159

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 12]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(vi) A descriptive report on the main business lines generating revenues broken
down by main products, services, other activities, geographies, and market
position; and
(vii) Peer group analysis segregated by competitor bank, product, or business lines
targeting the same source of profits and customers (e.g. credit card businesses
targeting consumers at a particular economic stratum in a specific country.
64. Business model analysis may act as a base for the development of Reverse Stress
Test scenarios.
B. Credit Risk
65. Credit risk is the risk of losses arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet
its obligations as they fall due. Each bank should assess all its credit exposures and determine
whether the risk weights applied to such exposures under the regulatory standardised
approach for credit risk (Standardised Approach) are appropriate for the inherent risk of the
exposures. Each bank should have the ability to assess credit risk at the portfolio level as well
as at the exposure or counterparty level.
66. To ensure that each bank has sufficient capital allocated for credit risk, each bank
should compare their capital consumption under two methods for all credit exposures across
all asset classes: (i) the Standardised Approach and (ii) an estimation under the foundation
internal-rating based approach (F-IRB) in the Basel Framework (“IRB approach: risk weight
functions”, CRE31).
67. The Central Bank recognises that some banks may not have appropriately calibrated
probability of defaults (PDs) for the calculation of the F-IRB approach. In the absence of such
calibration, banks should rely on their 1-year PD used for IFRS provisioning purposes. Each
bank should undertake this comparison at asset class level, where higher F-IRB numbers
indicate additional required capital. Drivers of material differences between the two
approaches should be explained.
68. If a bank uses credit risk mitigation techniques (CRMT), it should analyse and evaluate
the risks associated to such mitigation under Pillar 2 risks measurement. The bank should
analyse potential effects, the enforceability and the effectiveness of such CRMT, in particular
in the case of real estate collaterals in order to estimate residual credit risk with prudence.
C. Market Risk
69. Market risk is the risk of losses in on- and off-balance sheet positions arising from
movements in market factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices,
commodities prices, credit spreads, and options volatilities. Each bank should have
methodologies and limits that enable it to assess and actively manage all material market risks,
at several levels of granularity including position, desk, business line, or firm-wide level.
70. Under its ICAAP, each bank should assess its capital adequacy for market risk by
considering methods other than the regulatory standardised approach for market risk. Each
bank should start this assessment with the metrics already employed to measure market risk
as part of regular risk management, including net open positions (NOP), value-at-risk (VaR),
stressed VaR, and economic stress tests. The calibration of capital associated to Pillar 2 risks
should be undertaken with prudence and should include risks such as concentration risk,
market illiquidity, basis risk, and jump-to-default risk.
71. Ultimately, market risk capital should be designed to protect the bank against market
risk volatility over the long term, including periods of stress and high volatility. Therefore, each
160

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 13]
CBUAE Classification: Public
bank should ensure that such calibration include appropriate stressed periods. The analysis
should be structured based on the bank’s key drivers of market risk, including portfolios, asset
classes, market risk factors, geographies, product types and tenors.
72. Each bank should analyse its amortised cost portfolio under Pillar 2, considering the
difference between the market value against the book value.
D. Operational Risk
73. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes,
people, or systems, or external events. This definition includes legal risk and compliance risk
but excludes strategic and reputational risk. The framework for operational risk management
should cover the bank’s appetite and tolerance for operational risks, and the manner and
extent to which operational risk is transferred outside the bank.
74. Operational risk is a recurrent and a material source of losses for many banks but the
existing approaches (the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA), the Standardised Approach (SA),
and the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)) for calculating Pillar 1 operational risk
capital may not reliably reflect the nature and scale of potential operational risk losses. The
Pillar 1 Standardised Approach for operational risk uses gross income as a measure of capital.
Gross income is a risk-insensitive proxy for operational risk capital, which may lead banks to
underestimate the risk. This was evident during the economic downturn in 2009, when banks’
income dropped, lowering their regulatory operational risk capital requirement, yet operational
risks were either constant or even elevated in some cases. Therefore, banks should ensure
that their Pillar 2 capital charge covers operational risks that are not captured by regulatory