
Not quite – the CCR exposure calculation for the leverage ratio is similar, but with some
differences. Potential Future Exposure is different because the PFE multiplier is set equal to
1, rather than possibly being less than 1 as under the CCR Standards. Replacement Cost
also differs, due to some differences in the treatment of eligible collateral. The requirements
are covered in para 44 to 46 of the Leverage Ratio Standards.
Question 5: Why is the PFE multiplier set to 1 for derivatives in the calculation of the
leverage ratio exposure measure?
The PFE multiplier is set to 1 because unlike the SA-CCR calculation, there is no “credit”
given to the bank for overcollateralization for the leverage ratio. This is in the spirit of other
aspects of the leverage ratio exposure calculation, which strictly limits the recognition of
various forms of credit risk mitigation.
Question 6: What types of commitments can qualify for a CCF less than 40%?
Commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank without prior
notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a
borrower’s creditworthiness, without observed constraints on the bank’s ability to cancel
such commitments. As noted in the Standards, such commitments are subject to a 10%
CCF.
Question 7: The Standards states “general provisions or general loan loss reserves
which have reduced Tier 1 capital may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure
measure.” Does this imply that for banks under the standardised approach all general
provisions held on the balance sheet are permitted to be deducted from the exposure
measure?
200

[Document: document.pdf, Page 203]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Yes, that interpretation is correct.
Question 8: The Standards does not mention interest in suspense; are bank’s allowed
to deduct this from the leverage ratio exposure measure?
No, interest in suspense should be included as an exposure. However, specific provisions
for interest in suspense can be deducted.
IV. Examples: Calculation of Gross SFT Assets
This section provides simple examples to help clarify the calculation of adjusted gross SFT
assets for the leverage ratio exposure measure. These examples are for guidance only;
banks should consult the actual Leverage Ratio Standards for the specific requirements.
Note that the SFT examples do not include the calculation of CCR exposure for the SFTs,
which is required under the leverage ratio standards.
For purposes of these examples, consider a bank with a simple initial balance sheet
consisting of assets of 200 cash and 400 in investment securities, funded by 600 in equity,
with no other initial liabilities. In simple T-account format, the bank’s initial position is the
following:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 200
Investment Securities 400 Equity 600
600 600
Example 1: Single Repurchase Agreement
A customer obtains financing from the bank through a repurchase agreement. The customer
provides securities to the bank of 110, receives cash of 100, and commits to repurchase the
securities at a specified future date. This is the bank’s only SFT.
After the transaction, the bank’s balance sheet appears as follows:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 100
Investment Securities 510
Repo Encumbered
Securities -110
Cash Receivable 100 Equity 600
600 600
For purposes of the leverage ratio, gross SFT assets would be the sum of the cash receivable
created and the investment securities received, 100+110, for a total of 210. However, this
total is reduced by the value of the securities received under the SFT because the bank has
recognized the securities as an asset on its balance sheet, leading to an adjusted gross SFT
asset value of 100 for inclusion in the leverage ratio exposure measure.
Note that in this example, the net effect on leverage ratio exposure would be zero, since on-
balance-sheet assets exclusive of SFT assets decline by 100.
Example 2: Single Reverse Repurchase Agreement
A bank obtains funding by reversing out securities in exchange for cash. The bank receives
100 cash, repos out 110 in securities, and will repurchase the securities at a specified future
date. This is the bank’s only SFT.
After the transaction, the bank’s balance sheet appears as follows:
201

[Document: document.pdf, Page 204]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 300
Investment Securities 290 Cash Payable 100
Repo Encumbered Securities 110 Equity 600
700 700
For purposes of the leverage ratio, gross SFT assets would be simply the 100 cash received.
Note that in this example, the net effect would be to increase the measured leverage ratio
exposure by 100.
Example 3: Simple Repo Portfolio
The bank has two SFTs, the repo from Example 1 above, and the reverse repo from Example
2 above. Both SFTs are with the same counterparty, and are subject to a qualifying master
netting agreement under which cash payables and receivables qualify for netting. These are
the bank’s only SFTs.
After the transaction, the bank’s balance sheet appears as follows:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 200
Investment Securities 400 Cash Payable 100
Cash Receivable 100 Equity 600
700 700
Because the SFT transactions have matching terms, there are offsetting accounting entries
for Repo Encumbered Securities, Investment Securities, and Cash. In this case, gross SFT
assets would be 310, consisting of 100 cash receivable, 110 investment securities received,
and 100 cash received. However, this total is adjusted down by the amount of the securities
received and held on the balance sheet (110), and by another 100 due to the netting of the
cash payable and the cash receivable, leaving an adjusted total gross SFT assets of 100 to
be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure.
202