[Document: PI.pdf, Page 20 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Note also that earnings are defined as distributable profits calculated prior to the deduction of
elements subject to the restriction on distributions. Earnings are calculated after the tax, which
would have been reported had none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact
of making, such distributions are reversed out. Where a bank does not have positive earnings
and has a CET1 ratio less than 9.5%, it would be restricted from making positive net distributions.
Gross-up Clauses:
Gross-up clauses for Additional Tier 1:
9. Gross up clauses are acceptable only if:
i. It is activated by decision of the local tax authority of the issuer and not the investor,
ii. The increased payments do not exceed distributable items,
iii. The gross-up is in relation to the dividend and not the principal.
Gross up Clauses for Tier 2:
10. The second condition related to distributable items is not relevant for Tier 2 instruments,
as Tier 2 coupons are not restricted by the amount of available distributable items. Therefore, Tier
2 gross-up clauses can be considered as acceptable if they are activated by a decision of the
local tax authority of the issuer, and if they relate to dividend and not on principal. The other two
conditions on gross-up clauses are, however, activation is still required by a local tax authority of
the issuer and not the investor, and the gross-up is in relation to the dividend payments only not
principal.
Point of Non-Viability (PONV):
11. The issuance of any new shares as a result of the Point of Non-Viability must occur prior
to any public sector injection of capital so that the capital provided by the public sector is not
diluted.
Further guidance on grandfathering:
12. If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for grandfathering begins its final five-year amortisation
period prior to 1st January 2018, the base for grandfathering in this case must take into account
the amortised amount, not the full nominal amount. As for the rate, if a Tier 2 instrument eligible
for grandfathering begins its final amortisation period on 1st January 2018, then individual
instruments will continue to be amortised at a rate of 20% per year while the grandfathering cap
will bereduced at a rate of 10% per year. Note that each tranche needs to be treated as a separate
tranche.
Amortisation of Tier 2 instruments:
13. During the last 5 years of the eligibility before maturity, the eligibility of Tier 2 instruments
is written down by 20% per year, i.e. the eligible amount is calculated by multiplying:
i. The nominal amount of the instruments on the first day of the final five year period of their
contractual maturity divided by the number of calendar days in that period;
ii. The number of remaining calendar days until the contractual maturity of the instruments.
21

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Documents required to be submitted for the application to issue new Tier Capital
Instruments
1. The CN-01 form should be completed, filled and signed by the bank's Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and Head
of Risk.
2. Full terms and conditions, together with the risk factors relating to the instrument.
i. Instruments of Islamic banks issued through an SPV must also provide the contract
between the bank and the SPV
3. Shareholder Approval:
i. Tier capital instruments require shareholder approval.
ii. The approval shall relate to an issuance of the specific planned Tier capital instrument
(Additional Tier 1 or subordinated Tier 2). Moreover, the approval should clearly mention
that the instrument is subordinated; coupon payments may not be paid under certain
circumstances, and contains a Point of Non-Viability (PONV) condition.
4. Legal opinion letters:
i. Legal Opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
terms and conditions are compliant with the requirements detailed in the Capital
Regulations, Standards and Guidance.
ii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
obligations contained in terms and conditions will constitute legal, valid, binding and
enforceable obligations.
iii. Legal opinion of an independent appropriately qualified and experienced lawyer that the
Self-Assessment of the issuing bank meets the Conditions and the Capital Regulations
5. Capital planning and forecast:
The Business as Usual (BAU) case should be formulated, such as:
a) Amount of assumed issuance and the expected issuance date (e.g. Q1 2018).
b) Capital structure: % in CET1, AT1, Tier 2 and deductions (using Basel 3 capital
components)
c) Five (5) year forecast of the Balance sheet, Profit & loss P&L, Risk Weighted Assets RWA.
d) Amortization of Tier Capital Issuances: Subordinated Tier 2 in the last 5 years prior to
maturity and AT1 Instruments, if they fall under a grandfathering rule, for example, 10%
per year.
e) Key assumptions and analysis (e.g. on balance growth, asset structure, conversation
factors CCF for off balance, operational and market risk, total assets growth, of which
businesses that will be the main driver for such growth) and CRWA (i.e. on balance sheet
exposure in different industry) in numerical as well as qualitative aspect.
6. Stress Testing Scenarios:
The Stress Testing should be submitted in form of a presentation including the underlying data in
Excel sheet.
Two Scenarios should be provided as part of the presentation:
a) Top 2 customers defaulting (point in time analysis permitted: End of Year): Definition of
top 2 customers; name of top 2 customers; exposure (including on and off balance
exposures); what type of eligible collateral and value of collateral, with two sub-scenarios:
i. With average provisioning level of similar assets, and
ii. 75% provisioning level
b) Central Bank’s Macro-Economic Stress Test
 Assumptions and results of the latest Macroeconomic stress tests performed by the
Central Bank.
22

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
7. Non-Funding Notice: Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises
control or significant influence can have purchased the instrument, nor can the bank directly
or indirectly have funded the purchase of the instrument.
Private Placements
 Offer letter is required for private placements, including risk factors and the bank's financial
and risk situation.
 Market Conformity Analysis: The bank has to provide evidence on why the pricing of the
instrument conforms to the market rate.
II. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: The last bullet point mentions “Liability accounted instruments must set the
loss absorption trigger at a level of 7.625%.” Is it Central Bank decision to have this trigger
set at 7.625%? Are any triggers likely to be set for equity accounted instruments?
It is Central Bank’s decision for the trigger level. However, the trigger level derives directly from
Basel. Minimum capital requirement plus 0.625%. Note, that the consultation documents do not
consult on a trigger for equity accounted AT1. However, in particular in conjunction with the
development of a recovery/ resolution regulation, the introduction of a trigger level may also be
discussed again, as pointed out in the presentation that was circulated with the Tier capital
instrumentdocuments.
Question 2: Point of Non-Viability mentions that “A Point of Non-Viability means that the
Regulator has determined that the issuer has or will become, Non-Viable without: (a) a
Write-down; or (b) a public injection of capital (or equivalent support).”. We need
clarification as to whether the PONV will be determined by the regulator or the issuer.
Also, please advise under what circumstance will partial Write-down be permitted. The
regulator determines whether the bank is non-viable or not. Partial write-down will be permitted
only for exceptional cases. Explicit examples will not be provided to prevent any expectation.
Question 3: Appendix A: Application Process 1.4: It is mentioned that “Stress Testing with
a stress scenario of top 2 customers are defaulting”. Since many UAE banks have
concentrations in this area, what loss rate needs to be applied in this stress scenario?
Current status quo is two sub scenarios: 75% loss rate and average loss rate of the bank for such
customers.
23

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Credit Risk
I. Introduction
This section provides the guidance for the computation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets
(CRWAs) under the Standardised Approach (SA). This guidance should be read in conjunction
with the Central Bank’s Standard on Credit Risk.
A bank must apply risk weights to its on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet items using
the risk- weighted assets approach. Risk weights are based on credit ratings or fixed risk weights
and are broadly aligned with the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.
A bank may use the ratings determined by an External Credit Assessment Institution
(ECAI) for credit ratings. In general, banks should only use solicited ratings from recognised
ECAIs for the purposes of calculating capital requirement under the SA. However, in exceptional
cases, the bank may use unsolicited ratings with the Central Bank approval.
Note that all exposures subject to the SA should be risk weighted net of specific
allowances and interest in suspense. The guidance must be read in conjunction with
Securitisation, Equity Investments in Funds, Counterparty Credit Risk and Credit Valuation
Guidance.
The guidance set out in this section applies to all exposures in the banking book.
Exposures in the trading book should be captured as part of a bank’s market risk capital
calculations.
II. Clarification and Guiding Principles
A. Claims on Sovereigns
UAE Sovereigns: The UAE Sovereign asset class consists of exposures to Federal
Government and Emirates governments.
Federal Government includes all the UAE Federal entities and Central Bank of the UAE
(Central Bank). Banks have transition period of 7 years from the date of implementation for
exposures to Federal Government that receive a 0% RW, if such exposures are denominated in
AED or USD and funded in AED or USD. However, any claim on UAE Federal Government in
foreign currency other than USD should be risk weighted according to the published credit risk
rating of UAE Federal Government. In the absence of solicited rating for UAE Federal
Government, unsolicited ratings are permissible for assigning risk weights for UAE Federal
Government exposures.
Emirates Governments’ exposures include exposures to the Ruler and the Crown Prince
of each emirate acting in the capacity as ruler and crown prince, as well as exposures to the