[Document: document.pdf, Page 91]
CBUAE Classification: Public
permitted to invest in equities directly as assets and to hold cash balances, the mandate allows
the fund to take long positions in equity index futures up to a maximum notional amount equivalent
to 80% of the fund’s balance sheet. Since this means that with 100 in assets the fund could have
futures with a notional value of 80, the total on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet exposures
of the fund could reach 180.
Suppose that the fund’s mandate also places a restriction on leverage, allowing the fund to issue
debt up to a maximum of 10% of the total value of the fund’s assets. This debt constraint implies
that with 100 in assets, the fund’s maximum financial leverage would be at a mixture of 10 debt
and 90 equity, for a maximum assets-to-equity ratio of 100/90≈1.11.
Finally, assume that the value of the bank’s investment in the fund is 20.
For the computation of RWA, the on-balance-sheet assets are assumed to be invested to the
maximum extent possible in the riskiest type of asset permitted under the mandate. The mandate
allows either cash (which has a zero risk weight) or equities, so the full 100 is assumed to be in
equities, with a 100% risk weight.
Next, the fund is assumed to enter into derivatives contracts to the maximum extent allowable
under its mandate – stated as 80% of total assets – implying a maximum derivatives notional of
80. This amount receives the risk weight associated with the underlying of the derivatives position,
which in this example is 100% for publicly traded equity holdings.
The calculation of RWA must include an amount for the counterparty credit risk associated with
derivatives. If the bank cannot determine the replacement cost associated with the futures
contracts, then the replacement cost must be approximated by the maximum notional amount of
80. If the PFE is similarly indeterminate, an additional 15% of the notional amount must be added
for PFE. Thus, the CCR exposure is 1.4 x (80×1.15) = 129. Assuming the futures contracts clear
through a qualifying CCP, a risk weight of 2% applies to the CCR exposure, and no CVA charge
is assessed for the CCP.
The total RWA for the fund is the sum of the components for on-balance-sheet assets, off-
balance-sheet exposures, and CCR:
100×100% + 80×100% + 129×2% = 182.58
Given the total assets of the fund of 100, the average risk-weight for the fund is:
Avg RW = 182.58 / 100 = 182.58%
fund
As noted above, the fund’s maximum leverage is approximately 1.11 at an assets-to-equity ratio
of 100/90. Therefore, the risk-weight for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is:
Risk Weight = 182.58% × (100/90) = 202.87%
Applying this risk weight of 202.87% to the bank’s equity investment in the fund of 20, the bank’s
RWA on the position for the purpose of calculating minimum required capital is 202.87% × 20 =
40.57.
89

[Document: document.pdf, Page 92]
CBUAE Classification: Public
VII. Securitisation
I. Introduction
In December 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) published a
revised framework for calculating bank capital requirements for securitisation exposures, with
further revisions in July 2016. The revised securitisation framework aimed to address a number
of shortcomings in the Basel II securitisation framework and to strengthen the capital standards
for securitisation exposures held in the banking book. The Central Bank’s Standards on Required
Capital for Securitisation Exposures is based closely on the BCBS framework.
A central feature of the revised framework is a hierarchy of approaches to risk-weighted
asset calculations. The BCBS framework includes approaches based on internal credit risk ratings
of banks. These approaches have not been included in the Central Bank’s Standards, as internal
ratings-based approaches are not deemed appropriate for use in capital calculations at this time
by banks in the UAE.
Consequently, the hierarchy of approaches within the Central Bank’s Standards begins
with the revised External Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-ERBA), and below that in the hierarchy
the revised Standardised Approach (SEC-SA). For resecuritisations, the hierarchy excludes the
SEC-ERBA, and instead begins with the SEC-SA. If neither the SEC-ERBA nor the SEC-SA can
be applied for a particular securitisation exposure, a maximum risk weight of 1250% must be used
for the exposure.
Calculations under both the SEC-ERBA and the SEC-SA depend to some degree on a
measure of “tranche thickness.” The thickness of a tranche is determined by the size of the
tranche relative to the entire securitisation transaction. In general, for a given attachment point, a
thinner tranche is riskier than a thicker tranche, and therefore warrants a higher risk weight for
risk-based capital adequacy purposes. While credit rating agencies capture some aspects of the
risk related to tranche thickness in their external ratings, analysis performed by the BCBS
suggested that capital requirements for a given rating of a mezzanine tranche should differ
significantly based on tranche thickness, and this is reflected in the Standards.
Under the SEC-ERBA, risk weights also are adjusted to reflect tranche maturity. The
BCBS incorporated a maturity adjustment to reflect unexpected losses appropriately in the capital
calculations. External ratings used for SEC-ERBA typically reflect expected credit loss rates, and
the BCBS concluded through analysis during the development process that the mapping between
these expected losses and unexpected losses (the quantity that capital is intended to cover)
depends on maturity.
II. Clarifications
1. Securitisation
The Standards defines a securitisation as a contractual structure under which the cash
flow from an underlying pool of exposures is used to service claims with at least two different
stratified risk positions or tranches reflecting different degrees of credit risk. The creation of
90

[Document: document.pdf, Page 93]
CBUAE Classification: Public
distinct tranches is the key feature of securitisation; similar structures that merely “pass through”
the cash flows to the claims without modification are not considered securitisations.
For securitisation exposures, payments to the investors depend upon the performance of
the specified underlying exposures, as opposed to being derived from an obligation of the entity
originating those exposures. The stratified/tranched structures that characterize securitisations
differ from ordinary senior/subordinated debt instruments in that junior securitisation tranches can
absorb losses without interrupting contractual payments to more senior tranches, whereas
subordination in a senior/subordinated debt structure is a matter of priority of rights to the
proceeds of a liquidation.
In some cases, transactions that have some of the features of securitisations should not
be treated as such for capital purposes. For example, transactions involving cash flows from real
estate (e.g., in the form of rents) may be considered specialized lending exposures. Banks should
consult with Central Bank when there is uncertainty about whether a given transaction should be
considered a securitisation.
2. Senior Securitisation exposures
A securitisation exposure is considered a senior exposure if it is effectively backed or
secured by a first claim on the entire amount of the assets in the underlying securitised pool.
While this generally includes only the most senior position within a securitisation tranche,
in some instances there may be other claims that, in a technical sense, may be more senior in
the waterfall (e.g., a swap claim) but may be disregarded for the purpose of determining which
positions are treated as senior.
If a senior tranche is retranched or partially hedged (i.e., not on a pro rata basis), only the
new senior part would be treated as senior for capital purposes.
In some cases, several senior tranches of different maturities may share pro rata in loss
allocation. In that case, the seniority of these tranches is unaffected – they all are considered to
be senior – since they all benefit from the same level of credit enhancement. (Note that in this
case, the material effects of differing tranche maturities are captured by maturity adjustments to
the risk weights assigned to the securitisation exposures, per the Standards.)
In a traditional securitisation where all tranches above the first-loss piece are rated, the
most highly rated position should be treated as a senior tranche. When there are several tranches
that share the same rating, only the most senior tranche in the cash flow waterfall should be
treated as senior (unless the only difference among them is the effective maturity). In addition,
when the different ratings of several senior tranches only result from a difference in maturity, all
of these tranches should be treated as senior.
In a typical synthetic securitisation, an unrated tranche can be treated as a senior tranche
provided that all of the conditions for inferring a rating from a lower tranche that meets the
definition of a senior tranche are fulfilled.
Usually, a liquidity facility supporting an ABCP program would not be the most senior
position within the program; instead, the commercial paper issued by the program, which benefits
from the liquidity support, typically would be the most senior position. However, when a liquidity
facility that is sized to cover all of the outstanding commercial paper and other senior debt
supported by the pool is structured so that no cash flows from the underlying pool can be
91

[Document: document.pdf, Page 94]
CBUAE Classification: Public
transferred to other creditors until any liquidity draws are repaid in full, the liquidity facility can be
treated as a senior exposure. Otherwise, if these conditions are not satisfied, or if for other reasons
the liquidity facility constitutes a mezzanine position in economic substance rather than a senior
position in the underlying pool, the liquidity facility should be treated as a non-senior exposure.
3. Operational requirements for the recognition of risk transference
The Standards requires that banks obtain a legal opinion to confirm true sale to
demonstrate that the transferor does not maintain effective or indirect control over the transferred
exposures and that the exposures are legally isolated from the transferor in such a way (e.g.,
through the sale of assets or through sub-participation) that the exposures are put beyond the
reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or receivership. However, that legal
opinion need not be limited to legal advice from qualified external legal counsel; it may be in the
form of written advice from in-house lawyers.
For synthetic securitisations, risk transference through instruments such as credit
derivatives may be recognized only if the instruments used to transfer credit risk do not contain
terms or conditions that limit the amount of credit risk transferred. Examples of terms or conditions
that would violate this requirement include the following:
(a) Clauses that materially limit the credit protection or credit risk transference, such as an
early amortization provision in a securitisation of revolving credit facilities that effectively
subordinates the bank’s interest, significant materiality thresholds below which credit
protection is deemed not to be triggered even if a credit event occurs, or clauses that
allow for the termination of the protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the
underlying exposures.
(b) Clauses that require the originating bank to alter the underlying exposures to improve
the pool’s average credit quality.
(c) Clauses that increase the bank’s cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in
the pool’s quality.
(d) Clauses that increase the yield payable to parties other than the originating bank, such
as investors and third-party providers of credit enhancements, in response to a
deterioration in the credit quality of the reference pool.
(e) Clauses that provide for increases in a retained first-loss position or credit enhancement
provided by the originating bank after the transaction’s inception.
4. Due diligence
The Standards requires banks to have a thorough understanding of all structural features of a
securitisation transaction that would materially affect the performance of the bank’s exposures to
the transaction. Common structural features that are particularly relevant include those related to
the payment waterfall incorporated in the structure, which is the description of the order of
payment for the securitisation, under which higher-tier tranches receive principal and interest
first, before lower-tier tranches are paid. Credit enhancements and liquidity enhancements also
are important structural features; these may take the form of cash advance facilities, letters of
credit, guarantees, or credit derivatives, among others. Effective due diligence also should
consider unusual or unique aspects of a particular securitisation structure, such as the specific
nature of the conditions that would constitute default under the structure.
92

[Document: document.pdf, Page 95]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Treatment of Securitisation exposures
1. Risk weights for off-balance-sheet exposures
The Standards requires that banks apply a 100% CCF to any securitisation-related off-
balance-sheet exposures that are not credit risk mitigants. One example of such an off-balance-
sheet exposure that may arise with securitisations is a commitment for servicer cash advances,
under which a servicer enters into a contract to advance cash to ensure an uninterrupted flow of
payments to investors. The BCBS securitisation framework provides national discretion to permit
the undrawn portion of servicer cash advances that are unconditionally cancellable without prior
notice to receive the CCF for unconditionally cancellable. The Central Bank has chosen not to
adopt this discretionary treatment, and instead requires a 100% CCF for all off-balance-sheet
exposures, including undrawn servicer cash advances.
2. Adjustment of risk-weights for overlapping exposures
Banks may adjust risk weights for overlapping exposures. An exposure A overlaps another
exposure B if in all circumstances the bank can avoid any loss on exposure B by fulfilling its
obligations with respect to exposure A. For example, if a bank holds notes as an investor but