[Document: document.pdf, Page 181]
CBUAE Classification: Public
use of, any third parties such as external consultants or suppliers. The bank
should provide a high-level summary reports or reviews of the outsourced
functions’ related policy documentation and processes.
3.2 Models
141. The ICAAP report is required to address models used to comply with regulatory and
accounting requirements, and those used for internal capital management, including but not
limited to models used for:
(i) IFRS9 accounting requirements;
(ii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 1 risks for capital requirements under the
Pillar 2;
(iii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 2 risks for capital requirements;
(iv) Regulatory stress tests requirements;
(v) Risk Management Regulations;
(vi) Valuation adjustments; and
(vii) Pricing models, capital allocation models, and budgeting models.
3.3 Reverse Stress Testing
142. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests and document the process and outcomes of the process in the ICAAP report.
143. Banks are expected to apply a mix of qualitative analyses and quantitative analyses,
which may vary in relation to the nature, scale, and complexity of the banks’ business activities
and the risks associated with those activities. Accordingly, it may be acceptable for smaller
and less complex banks to develop reverse stress tests that focus more on qualitative
analyses, while larger and more banks that are complex should include more quantitative
elements alongside the qualitative analyses. Appropriate scenarios differ based on each bank
economic circumstances, business model and risk drivers.
144. A bank may consider implementing the following steps, which are presented purely for
illustrative purposes:
(i) Define specific trigger points that could threaten the bank’s viability or
solvency. Such trigger points may involve situations in which:
 The bank’s capital or liquidity positions fall below the minimum regulatory
requirements;
 Specific indicators which, if hit, reflect a loss of confidence by the bank’s
counterparties (e.g. access to wholesale funding markets denied) or by
depositors (e.g. deposit run-off rates reach a significant level); or
 The bank is unable to repay its debt obligations. Some of the indicators
may render the banks unviable (e.g. due to illiquidity resulting from a
substantial and rapid deposit run) before it becomes insolvent.
(ii) Reverse-engineering the bank’s business model to the point that the trigger
points are breached. In this way, it is possible to identify what adverse but
plausible financial or non-financial events, either independently or combined,
179

[Document: document.pdf, Page 182]
CBUAE Classification: Public
cause the bank to reach those trigger points notwithstanding existing
management actions. That is, for reverse stress testing purposes, the bank is to
tweak the parameters of a stress scenario until the point at which current
systems and controls (e.g. accepted risk limits, controls, exposures and
collaterals, etc.) are not able to prevent the bank from hitting the trigger point(s).
The bank should understand the parameters and conditions in the scenario that
precipitate a failed reverse stress test to analyse its risks and weaknesses.
Feasible remedial actions should be designed that could prevent the
consequences of such a scenario. For example, the bank could amend its
business strategy regarding a specific sector.
3.4 Supplementary Content Required in an ICAAP Report
145. The following supplementary topics should be documented in the ICAAP report.
(a) Summary of outstanding findings and required management actions from
pertinent assessments, examinations and audits (e.g. current outstanding
actions emanating from internal audits, external audits, risk management
assessments, capital management reviews, Central Bank examinations, and
Pillar 3, etc.), including the status of official actions;
(b) Key items which warrant immediate Central Bank attention, such as a projected
shortfall in regulatory minimum capital amount; a breach in outlier status under
IRRBB, and any other material risks;
(c) A list of the major changes compared to the previous ICAAP report, e.g. changes
in data, MIS, organisation, process, and methodology; and
(d) Key actions resulting from ICAAP discussions with the Board of Directors, in the
form of meeting minutes included as an Appendix. (Relevant evidence should
be made available upon request).
180

[Document: document.pdf, Page 183]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3
181

[Document: document.pdf, Page 184]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3 – Market Disclosures
I. Introduction
1. Market discipline has long been recognized as a key objective of the Central Bank of the
UAE. The provision of meaningful information about common key risk metrics to market
participants is a fundamental principle of a sound banking system. It reduces information
irregularity and helps promote comparability of banks’ risk profiles within UAE. Pillar 3 of the Basel
framework aims to promote market discipline through regulatory disclosure requirements. These
requirements enable market participants to access key information relating to a bank’s regulatory
capital and risk exposures in order to increase transparency and confidence about a bank’s
exposure to risk and the overall adequacy of its regulatory capital.
2. The revised Pillar 3 disclosures in this guidance focus on regulatory measures defined in
Pillar 1 of the Basel framework, which requires banks to adopt specified approaches for measuring
credit, market and operational risks and their associated resulting risk-weighted assets (RWA) and
capital requirements. In some instances, Pillar 3 also requires supplementary information to be
disclosed to improve the understanding of underlying risks. Central Bank continues to believe that
a common disclosure framework based around Pillar 1 is an effective means of informing the
market and allowing market participants to take informed investment decisions. However, in the
wake of the 2007–09 financial crisis, it became apparent that the existing Pillar 3 framework failed
to promote the identification of a bank’s material risks and did not provide sufficient, and
sufficiently comparable, information to enable market participants to assess a bank’s overall
capital adequacy and to compare it with its peers. The revised Pillar 3 disclosure requirements in
this guidance are based on an extensive review of Pillar 3 reports.
3. A key goal of the revised Pillar 3 disclosures is to improve comparability and consistency
of disclosures. However, it is recognized that a balance needs to be struck between the use of
mandatory templates that promote consistency of reporting and comparability across banks, and
the need to allow senior management sufficient flexibility to provide commentary on a bank’s
specific risk profile. For this reason, the revised disclosure regime introduces a “hierarchy” of
disclosures; prescriptive fixed form templates which are used for quantitative information that is
considered essential for the analysis of a bank’s regulatory capital requirements, and templates
with a more flexible format are proposed for information which is considered meaningful to the
UAE market but not central to the analysis of a bank’s regulatory capital adequacy. In addition,
senior management may accompany the disclosure requirements in each template with a
qualitative commentary that explains a bank’s particular circumstance and risk profile.
II. Disclosure of Pillar 3 information
A. Scope and implementation of the revised Pillar 3 framework
Scope of application
4. The revised disclosure requirements presented in this guidance supersede the existing
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements issued in 2009. These revised requirements are an integral part
of the Basel framework and they complement other disclosure requirements issued separately by
Central Bank, which are uploaded on Central Bank's website/online portal for banks to download.
182

[Document: document.pdf, Page 185]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3 applies to all banks in the UAE at the top consolidated level for local banks and all
branches of foreign banks. Banks having a banking subsidiary will be required to be consolidated
at Group level as one Pillar 3 report as well as at subsidiary solo level as a separate Pillar 3 report
Banks offering Islamic financial services should comply with these disclosure requirements.
These requirements are applicable to their activities that are in line with Islamic Sharia rules and
principals, which are neither interest-based lending nor borrowing but are parallel to the activities
described in these Guidance and Explanatory Notes
Implementation date
5. The Pillar 3 tables and disclosures will be effective from the beginning of 2019 for the
previous year's figures and every year going forward. Banks need to report in each table as per
the requirements for that table set out in the Appendix since few tables are required to be reported
every quarter or semi-annually or annually.
Reporting
6. Banks should publish their Pillar 3 report in a stand-alone document on the bank’s UAE-
specific website that provides a readily accessible source of prudential measures for users. The
Pillar 3 report may be appended to form a discrete section of a bank’s financial reporting, but the
full report will be needed to be disclosed separately in the Pillar 3 tables as well.
7. Signposting of disclosure requirements is permitted in certain circumstances, as set out
in paragraphs 21–23 below. Banks should also make available on their websites a 5-year
archive of Pillar 3 reports (i.e. quarterly, semi-annual or annual) relating to prior reporting
periods (past 5 years’ data)
Frequency and timing of disclosures
8. The reporting frequencies for each disclosure requirement are set out in the schedule in
paragraph 27 below. The frequencies vary between quarterly, semi-annual and annual reporting
depending upon the nature of the specific disclosure requirement. If a bank publishes interim
financial statements, then the bank should publish the quarterly Pillar 3 report, three (3) weeks
after the interim financial statements are published. For banks who do not have an interim financial
statement, the Pillar 3 quarterly report needs to be published 6 weeks from quarter end.
9. A bank’s Pillar 3 report should be published with its financial report for the corresponding
period as mandated in paragraph 8 above. If a Pillar 3 disclosure is required to be published for
a period when a bank does not produce any financial report, the disclosure requirement should
be published as soon as possible. However, the time lag should not exceed that allowed to the
bank for its regular financial reporting period-ends (e.g. if a bank reports only annually and its
annual financial statements are made available six weeks after the end of the annual reporting
period-end, interim Pillar 3 disclosures on a quarterly and/or semi-annual basis should be
available within six weeks after the end of the relevant quarter or semester).
Assurance of Pillar 3 data
10. The information provided by banks under Pillar 3 should be subject, at a minimum, to the
same level of internal review and internal control processes as the information provided by banks
for their financial reporting (i.e. the level of assurance should be the same as for information
provided within the management discussion and analysis part of the financial report).
 The Pillar 3 Disclosures and reports have to be reviewed by internal audit of all bank for all
Pillar 3 reports.
183

[Document: document.pdf, Page 186]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 All local banks and large foreign banks will need to have the annual Pillar 3 reports externally
audited every two (2) years and smaller foreign banks (as defined in paragraph 27) will need
to have the annual Pillar 3 reports externally audited every four (4) years.
11. Banks should also have a formal board-approved disclosure policy for Pillar 3 information
that sets out the internal controls and procedures for disclosure of such information. The key
elements of this policy should be described in the year-end Pillar 3 report. The board of directors
and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal
control structure over the disclosure of financial information, including Pillar 3 disclosures. They
should also ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. One or more senior
officers of a bank, ideally at board level or equivalent, should attest in writing that Pillar 3
disclosures have been prepared in accordance with the board-agreed internal control processes.
For larger banks, Board member attestation will be expected.
Proprietary and confidential information
12. The Central Bank believes that the disclosure requirements set out below strike an
appropriate balance between the need for meaningful disclosure and the protection of proprietary
and confidential information. In exceptional cases, disclosure of certain items required by Pillar 3
may reveal the position of a bank or contravene its legal obligations by making public information
that is proprietary or confidential in nature. In such cases, a bank would need to approach the
Central Bank first and obtain approval for non-disclosure of such information they deem to be