[Document: PII.pdf, Page 20 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
employed to estimate the P&L profile and risks to the bank from a range of
shocks. This is particularly useful to identify non-linear response in the loss
profile. For instance, this could include measuring NII with parallel shifts of +/-
50bp, +/-100bp, +/-150bp and higher shocks applied to a yield curve. It also
includes measuring expected credit loss (ECL) and capital requirements with
standard parallel shocks of +/-100bp, +/-200bp, +/-300bp applied to the PD term
structure of a given portfolio (e.g. worsening of credit spreads, adverse changes
in interest rates, other macroeconomic or idiosyncratic variables).
(ii) Scenario analysis involves measuring the combined effect of several risk
factors with shocks designed in coherence with an economic narrative affecting
the bank’s business operations simultaneously. Such narrative should be based
on an analysis of the current economic conditions, the business environment
and the operating conditions of the bank. The scope of events should be broad,
consider an appropriate range of risk types, and geographies. The narrative
should be constructed with a clear sequence of unfolding events leading to (a)
direct risks, (b) second-order risks, and/or (c) systemic risks, and how these risks
affect the profit and loss profile and risks of the bank based on a scale of shocks
(e.g. an economic recession coupled with a tightening of market liquidity and
declining asset prices). The scope of the narrative should take into account the
economic environment and the features of each portfolio in scope. The
calibration of shocks should be supported by rigorous methodologies using (a)
historical data and past events, and/or (b) forward-looking assumptions.
Practitioners refer to ‘historical scenarios’ and ‘hypothetical scenarios’.
115. Each bank is expected to continuously monitor and identify new threats, vulnerabilities
and changes in the environment to assess whether its stress testing scenarios remain
appropriate at least quarterly and, if not, adapt them to the new circumstances. The impact of
the scenarios is expected to be updated regularly (e.g. quarterly). In case of any material
changes, the bank is expected to assess their potential impact on its capital adequacy over
the course of the year.
116. If the bank forecasts the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights
issues, reduction in the equity, etc.) and the capital planning reflects the proposed changes,
the bank must perform an additional stress scenario. In these additional stress scenarios the
bank should analyse the impact under the assumption that the capital increase does not
materialise. The impact analysis should include management actions and formal trigger points.
Methodology
117. The process of stress tests should be supported by robust and documented
methodologies. All models employed in the quantification of stress results should comply with
the requirements presented in the Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance.
118. For the measurement of capital under stress, each bank should employ a dedicated
financial model to forecast their financial statements under several economic conditions. Such
projection should be constructed over a minimum of three (3) years, in coherence with the
most recent capital plan and with the Central Bank regulatory exercise.
119. Stress scenarios may be derived from stochastic models or historical events, and can
be developed with varying degrees of precision, depth, and severity, particularly the impact on
asset quality, profitability, and capital adequacy. Each bank should consider three (3) to five
(5) scenarios (each scenario can have multiple severity levels (i.e. Low, medium, and high).
Although it is expected to consider the supervisory stress tests (“stress test exercise of the
Financial Stability Department (FSD)”) as one scenario, it is the bank’s responsibility to define
scenarios and sensitivities in the manner that best addresses its situation and to translate them
168

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
into risk, loss, and capital figures.
Use Test
120. Stress tests should support decision-making throughout the bank effectively. Stress
tests should be embedded in banks’ business decision-making and risk management process
at several levels of the organisation. Senior Management and the Board should lead and
approve all assumptions, the methodology framework and authorise the use of stress test
results.
121. Stress tests do not stop with the production of results. Risk mitigations should always
be considered in light of the stress severity and likelihood. If no action is deemed necessary,
this should be documented and clearly justified.
Reverse Stress Test
122. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests. Reverse stress tests start with the identification of a pre-defined outcome where the
bank’s business model becomes non-viable (e.g. through insolvency), or it breaches
supervisory compliance minima, e.g. by breaching minimum capital requirements (i.e. the bank
will breach the regulatory capital buffer and minimum capital requirements). The next step is
to assess which scenarios and shocks lead to that identified outcome. Finally, the objective is
to assess whether the likelihood of occurrence is realistic and the impact warrants mitigating
actions. If a bank considers mitigation strategies, e.g. hedging strategies, the bank should
consider if such strategies would be viable. For example, a market that is stressed at a financial
system level may be characterised by a lack of market liquidity and increased counterparty
credit risk.
123. Effective reverse stress testing is a challenging exercise that requires the involvement
of all material risk areas across the bank’s subject matter experts, Senior Management, and
the Board.
124. Each bank should conduct a reverse stress test at least once a year. A well-designed
reverse stress test should also include enough diagnostic information to allow the identification
of the sources of potential failure. This enables proactive risk management actions and
implementation of an appropriate strategy for refined risk monitoring, prevention, and
mitigation. The reverse stress test requires each bank to consider scenarios beyond normal
business forecasts and aids identification of events linked to contagion with potential systemic
implications. Reverse stress testing has important quantitative and qualitative uses, through
informing Senior Management of vulnerabilities, and supporting measures to avoid them.
(Please refer to Appendix 3.3).
VIII. ICAAP Submission and Approval
Submission of the ICAAP report
125. The annual ICAAP report should be submitted to the Central Bank on or before the
submission dates addressed in Table 1.
126. All documents have to be submitted to the respective Central Bank reviewer by
softcopy (submitted in word or pdf format), sending a copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
127. The submission dates below as per Notice 2940/2022 differentiate between (i) national
banks and foreign bank and (ii) size and importance of the banks: (Table 1)
Table 1 - Submission date for ICAAP Report
169

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Banks Report for Report for FY 2023
FY 2022 onwards
Large banks: FAB, ENBD, ADCB, DIB, Mashreq, ADIB, CBD 15/03/2022 01/03
Other local banks and HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank,
31/03/2022 31/03
Citibank, Arab Bank, and Bank of Baroda
Other Foreign Banks 15/04/2022 15/04
Approval of the ICAAP report:
128. The ICAAP report should be approved by:
(i) Senior Management (including the CRO): The bank should use Appendix 1 –
ICAAP – Mandatory disclosure form (Table 2) and include it as an attachment to
the ICAAP report;
(ii) Board approval: For all local banks, the ICAAP document must be approved by
the Board or Board risk committee, and Senior Management prior to submission
to the Central Bank. The meeting minutes of the Board of Directors meeting
should state the approval of the ICAAP document and challenges that have
taken place; and
(iii) For foreign branches, the ICAAP document should be approved by (a) the
managing director and/ or relevant highest committee of the bank in the UAE,
and by (b) their head office, stating that the ICAAP assumptions and forecasts
are in line with the group’s assumptions, forecasts, and that the group’s Board
approves/ endorse the results of the ICAAP.
IX. Internal Control Review
129. The bank’s internal control structure is essential to the capital assessment process.
Effective control of the internal capital adequacy assessment process should include an
independent review and the involvement of both internal audit and external audit (refer to
Appendix 3.1). Senior Management has a responsibility to ensure that the bank establishes a
system for assessing the full scope of its risks, develops a system to relate risk to the bank’s
capital level, and establishes a method for monitoring compliance with internal policies.
130. Internal Audit should perform an audit on the bank’s ICAAP report annually. The report
has to be submitted no later than three (3) months after the submission of the ICAAP report to
the bank’s reviewer and in copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
131. Internal control functions should perform regular reviews of the risk management
process to make sure its coherence, validity, and rationality. The review of the ICAAP should
cover the following:
(i) Ensuring that the ICAAP is complete and suitable as of the bank’s context ,
operational conditions, the reliability of controls behind it;
(ii) The process of identifying all material risks;
(iii) Efficiency of the information systems that support the ICAAP;
170

[Document: PII.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iv) Ensuring that the measurement methodologies in use are suitable to support the
ICAAP valuation,
(v) Ensuring the accuracy, and comprehensive of the data input to the ICAAP;
(vi) Rational behind the ICAAP output and assumptions in use;
(vii) Rational and suitability of stress tests and analysis of assumptions;
(viii) Consolidation of the ICAAP outcomes with the risk management (e.g., limit
setting and monitoring); and
(ix) Rational of the capitalplan and internal capital targets.
132. In addition, the review should cover the integrity and validity of regulatory data
submitted to the Central Bank during the course of the year relating to Pillar 1 capital
requirements, which should address, but not be limited to the following:
(i) Appropriate classification of risk-weighted assets (RWA);
(ii) Appropriate inclusion of the off-balance sheet values and the application of credit
conversion factors (CCF); and
(iii) Appropriate credit risk mitigation (CRM) methodology application and values.
133. The role and validity of internal control functions are also important and should be
verified with regard to other topics. For example:
(i) All risk quantification methodologies and models must be subject to independent
validation (internal/ external); and
(ii) Internal Audit should perform an independent review of the bank’s capital
framework implementation every year in accordance with the Capital Standards.
If the Central Bank is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by the
bank’sInternal Audit function, the Central Bank may require an external review.