[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 21]
CBUAE Classification: Public
1. Select the Report Type [4.2.1 GoAML XML Submission Guide]: A Compliance Officer or MLRO
should select a report type and populate all available details in the ‘Report Cover’ as depicted
below:
 Reporting Entity ID – Entity name as per the  Report Type* – Report type relevant to the
registration (auto-generated) suspicion/reason for submission to the FIU
 Internal STR/SAR # – Internal STR/SAR  FIU Reference – Only applicable in the
number case of AIF/RFI/ AIFT/RFIT type reports.
 Submission Date* – Date of escalating the Provide the corresponding case number as
Report to the FIU (auto-generated) specified in the Message Board
 Description/Summary of the Report* – Brief communication sent by the FIU
overview for the suspicion/reason for  Action Taken by Reporting Entity* – The
submitting this report to the FIU. This field is action(s) taken by the reporting entity post-
only mandatory for STR and SAR report types identifying the reason for
 Reporting Entity Branch – Branch where the suspicion/submission
main subject(s) of the report were identified
2. MLRO Details [4.2.2 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: This section of the report includes details
on the Compliance Officer, MLRO, or individual filing the report, which is automatically populated
using the details provided during the registration phase.6
3. Location of the Incident [4.2.3 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: The location of the incident
requires the location where the suspicious incident/transaction originated from. This is mandatory
for STR and SAR report types.
4. Reason for Reporting [4.2.4 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: The LFI is expected to select
the most appropriate reason for reporting available from the menu selection provided. If necessary,
more than one reason may also be provided. It is imperative that the correct Reason for Reporting
(“RFR”) is chosen for STRs or SARs submitted in the goAML system.7
5. Transactions [4.2.5 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: If the reported activity involves
transaction(s), the LFI should populate the following transaction details:
 Transaction Ref. Number* – Kindly use the  Transaction Executed by (Staff Name) –
auto-generate button to generate a unique Name of the staff member who executed
identification number if the LFI is not a the transaction
Bank/Exchange House
6 The UAE FIU has noted that there have been instances of reports being received whereby upon review, the LFI’s MLRO and related
team members’ contact details were not updated in the goAML system, which included email addresses and phone numbers. Keeping
contact information updated helps with the two-way communication between LFIs and the FIU while helping to shorten the turnaround
time of report analysis. It also enhances the ability of the FIU to analyze and subsequently process reports in a timely manner. The
contact information should be kept updated at all times.
7 The UAE FIU has noted that in some cases LFIs file reports while choosing RFRs that, upon closer examination, are not linked to
the actual suspicions of the report. As an example, reports have been received with RFRs related to the financing of terrorism and
illegal organisations with no evidence of any activity connected to the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations. Selecting
incorrect RFRs hinders the FIU’s analysis, and the LFI should expect multiple requests by the FIU for further clarification in these
cases. LFIs should be prudent and diligent when choosing RFRs and submitting reports to the UAE FIU. RFRs should be chosen
correctly and in relation to the actual suspicions of the STR or SAR being submitted.
Page 21 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 22]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Reporting Entity Internal Reference Number*  Authorizer – Name of the staff member
– Reporting entity's internal transaction responsible for authorizing the transaction
reference number  Branch executing the transaction* –
 Type of Transaction* – The mode used to Branch where the transaction was
conduct the transaction being reported executed
 Late Deposit – Does this transaction account  Date of receipt for recall request* (that field
as a late deposit? (Yes or No) will only show if ‘Yes’ was selected for
 Total Suspected Amount* (AED) – Suspected Indemnified for Repatriation) – The date
amount in AED when the reporting entity received the fund
 Date* – Date when transaction was initiated recall request
 Indemnified for Repatriation* – If the reporting  Purpose of the Transaction* – Purpose for
entity has received an indemnity for executing the transaction
repatriation  Transactions Comments – Comments (if
any)
6. Transaction Type, From Type / To Type, My Client / Not My Client, Foreign Currency,
Conductor, [4.2.5.1-4.2.5.5 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: Additional transaction details
should be added according to the transaction type; transaction type (to/from) (i.e., my client, not
my client); and foreign currency type (if applicable); and the amount. These fields should be
populated by the LFI according to the GoAML XML Registration Guide’s instructions. Please refer
to Party Type: Person (below) to populate information on the conductor of the transaction for
4.2.5.6.
7. Phone, Address, Identification, Email, and Employer Address and Employer Phone [4.2.5.7-
4.2.5.11 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: These fields should be populated by the LFI according
to the GoAML XML Registration Guide’s instructions.
8. Party Type [4.2.5.12 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: The ‘Party Type’ refers to the initiating
source (source of funds) and beneficiary/destination party in relation to the report being filed. The
initiating source and beneficiary/destination party can be either a Person, Account, or Entity.
 Party Type: Person [4.2.5.6, 4.2.5.13 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: Where the subject
initiating or receiving the transaction is a person, clicking the ‘Person’ radio button will
generate the following form and fields.
 Title – e.g., Mr./Mrs./Dr.  Occupation – Known occupation of the
 Prefix – Prefix Name e.g., Von, Jr. subject
 First Name* – First name of the person  Employer Name – Name of the person’s
 Middle Name – Middle name of the person current employer
 Last Name* – Last name of the person  PEP (Y/ N) – Specify if the person is a
 Gender – Male / Female politically exposed person. Input “Y” or “N”
 Birth Date – Date of birth of the subject accordingly
person  Source of funds – Primary source of funds
 Birthplace – Location where the person was used for the reported transaction
born  Passport* – Select if the passport details
 Mother’s Name – Name of the person’s are available (Y/N)
mother (if available)
Page 22 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 23]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Alias – A known alias for the person (if  Passport Number* – Input the passport
applicable) number without any spaces/hyphens only
 Emirates ID – Emirates ID number; input the in the absence of an Emirates ID
number without using any spaces/hyphens  Passport Country* – Country of the
 Nationality 1 – First nationality of the person passport provided
 Nationality 2 – Second nationality of the  Deceased – Is the person deceased?
person (Y/N)
 Nationality 3 – Third nationality of the person  Date of Death – Date when the person
 ID Number – ID number; input the number died (applicable only if “Y” was provided in
without using any spaces/hyphens the ‘Deceased’ field)
 Tax Number – Tax number for outside UAE
without hyphens/spaces (e.g., FATCA number
for US citizens)
 Residence – Country of residence
 Party Type: Account [4.2.5.14 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: If the transaction was
initiated or received through an Account, clicking the ‘Account’ radio button will generate the
following form and fields:
 Account Number* – Account number without
any spaces/ hyphens  Closed – Date of account closure
 Status Code (is mandatory for My Client) –  Balance* (Y/N) – Input "Y" or "N” on
Account status when transaction was whether there is a credit / debit in the
initiated account
 Institution Name – Name of the institution  Balance (if the ‘Yes’ radio button is
where the account was created selected (above)) – The current balance of
 UBO* – Who is the beneficial owner of the the account in AED
account?  Date of balance – Date when the balance
 Non-Banking Institution – Is the mentioned was recorded
account held in a bank or otherwise (Y/N)
 Client Number – Client Number as per
reporting entity’s records
 Account Type – Drop-down menu for type of
account
 Currency Code – Currency of the account
 IBAN – IBAN as per standard format (no
spaces/hyphens)
 Opened* – Date of account opening
 Please note that LFIs should also add a ‘Signatory(ies)’ form for reports involving accounts
that are classified as ‘My Client.’ When the accountholder is a person, the LFI is required to
enter all involved signatories. If the accountholder is an entity, the LFI is required to populate
the entity details. For instances where an account has multiple signatories, all of the signatory
details need to be captured in the goAML system.
Page 23 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 24]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Party Type: Entity [4.2.5.15 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: If the transaction was
initiated through an Entity, clicking the ‘Entity radio button will generate the following form and
fields.
 Name* – Legal name as per documentation  Comments – Comments (if any)
 Commercial Name – Commercial name as  PEP (Y/ N) – Specify if the person is a
per documentation politically exposed person. Input "Y" or "N"
 Business Activity – Business activity of entity accordingly
(drop-down)  Latest date of trade license
 Licensing Authority – Regulatory authority issuance/renewal – Date of trade license
responsible for licensing the entity issuance/renewal
 Trade License Number Authority  Latest date of trade license
 Place of incorporation – Specify the city issuance/renewal – Date of trade license
(Emirate in case of a UAE entity) issuance/renewal
 Establishment Date – Date when entity was  **Phones, Addresses, and Controlling
established Persons/Beneficial Owners can also be
 Incorporation Country – Country where the added. Addresses and Controlling
entity was incorporated (drop-down) Persons/Beneficial Owners section are
 Email – Registered email for the entity (if mandatory only when the entity is
any) classified as ‘My Client.’
 Website – Website for the entity (if any)
 Tax Number – Tax number for outside UAE
without hyphens/spaces (e.g., FATCA
number for US citizens)
9. Involved Parties [4.2.5.16 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: If there are multiple parties
involved in the reported activity, the ‘Involved Parties’ form should be populated with the following
fields.
 Role* – Nature of association with the  Funds comment – Comments on use of
transaction funds (if any)
 Funds Code* – The type of funds  Comments – Comments (if any)
 Country* – Country of the involved party  **Foreign Currency can also be added
 Significance – Rate the significance of the
concerned subject from 0 - 10 (0 being the
lowest and 10 being the highest score)
Page 24 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 25]
CBUAE Classification: Public
10. Good and Services [4.2.5.17 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: This section corresponds to
transactions involving the exchange of goods and services.
 Item Type* – The type of item (e.g., Vehicle)  Disposed Value - Effective value for
 Description – Description of the item (e.g., property transfer (value must be in AED)
Luxury Car)  Size UOM – Unit of measurement (e.g.
 Manufacturer – Item maker (e.g., if the item square meters)
is a car - BMW)  Size – Size of the property
 Presently Registered To – Name of current  Registration Number – Official registration
owner number (e.g., Car VIN Number)
 Previously Registered To – Name of  Registration Date – Official registration
previous owner date (in MM/DD/ YYYY format)
 Status Code – Stats code (e.g., Bought,  Identification Number – Any number that
Hired) can identify the item (e.g., Car Plate
 Estimated Value – Estimated value of the Number)
item  Comments – If applicable
 Currency Code – Used to report service  **Addresses can be added
conducted in foreign currency

11. Activity [4.2.6 GoAML XML Registration Guide]: If the report does not contain any transaction(s),
then the activity details may be captured in the report. The activity details should include the
significance of a concerned subject (scale of 0-10), the reason for reporting the party, and any
comments. The ‘Activity’ tab will be shown only in the case the reporting entity is submitting an
“SAR”, “RFI without transaction(s)” or an “AIF without transaction(s)” based report file.
Upon completion of all the mandatory fields (noted above) and submission of the report in the goAML
system, the report will be provided to the FIU. It is mandatory for the LFI’s filer to attach supplemental
documents to accompany the submission—including but not limited to—Know Your Customer (“KYC”)
documentation, copies of identification documentation, account opening forms, transaction receipts,
financial statements, and other documents relevant to the investigation. In the instance that the LFI
conducted due diligence or internal investigations, the corresponding documents must also be attached.
This will assist the FIU in reviewing the report with all the appropriate documentation to support its review
and analysis.
3.5. Amendments to Submitted Reports
Once a report is submitted and accepted in the system, neither the Compliance Officer, MLRO, nor FIU
employees can apply any changes and amendments to the report for missing or incorrect information.
However, LFIs may be requested to file a corresponding AIF, AIFT, RFI, or RFIT, and mention in the
“Description of the Report” field the reason of filing. LFIs should ensure that the filer uses the correct web
reference number of the initial report. In order to avoid such incident(s) and in order to safeguard the system
data integrity, LFIs should adopt a maker and checker process/concept to verify the quality and accuracy
of uploaded information.
Page 25 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 26]
CBUAE Classification: Public
4. Timing of Alert Reviews and STR or SAR Filings
4.1. Alert Review, Case Investigation, and STR or SAR Decision Making
An efficient alert management and dispositioning process is essential to safeguarding the financial integrity