[Document: document.pdf, Page 181]
CBUAE Classification: Public
use of, any third parties such as external consultants or suppliers. The bank
should provide a high-level summary reports or reviews of the outsourced
functions’ related policy documentation and processes.
3.2 Models
141. The ICAAP report is required to address models used to comply with regulatory and
accounting requirements, and those used for internal capital management, including but not
limited to models used for:
(i) IFRS9 accounting requirements;
(ii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 1 risks for capital requirements under the
Pillar 2;
(iii) The appropriate assessment of Pillar 2 risks for capital requirements;
(iv) Regulatory stress tests requirements;
(v) Risk Management Regulations;
(vi) Valuation adjustments; and
(vii) Pricing models, capital allocation models, and budgeting models.
3.3 Reverse Stress Testing
142. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests and document the process and outcomes of the process in the ICAAP report.
143. Banks are expected to apply a mix of qualitative analyses and quantitative analyses,
which may vary in relation to the nature, scale, and complexity of the banks’ business activities
and the risks associated with those activities. Accordingly, it may be acceptable for smaller
and less complex banks to develop reverse stress tests that focus more on qualitative
analyses, while larger and more banks that are complex should include more quantitative
elements alongside the qualitative analyses. Appropriate scenarios differ based on each bank
economic circumstances, business model and risk drivers.
144. A bank may consider implementing the following steps, which are presented purely for
illustrative purposes:
(i) Define specific trigger points that could threaten the bank’s viability or
solvency. Such trigger points may involve situations in which:
 The bank’s capital or liquidity positions fall below the minimum regulatory
requirements;
 Specific indicators which, if hit, reflect a loss of confidence by the bank’s
counterparties (e.g. access to wholesale funding markets denied) or by
depositors (e.g. deposit run-off rates reach a significant level); or
 The bank is unable to repay its debt obligations. Some of the indicators
may render the banks unviable (e.g. due to illiquidity resulting from a
substantial and rapid deposit run) before it becomes insolvent.
(ii) Reverse-engineering the bank’s business model to the point that the trigger
points are breached. In this way, it is possible to identify what adverse but
plausible financial or non-financial events, either independently or combined,
179

[Document: document.pdf, Page 182]
CBUAE Classification: Public
cause the bank to reach those trigger points notwithstanding existing
management actions. That is, for reverse stress testing purposes, the bank is to
tweak the parameters of a stress scenario until the point at which current
systems and controls (e.g. accepted risk limits, controls, exposures and
collaterals, etc.) are not able to prevent the bank from hitting the trigger point(s).
The bank should understand the parameters and conditions in the scenario that
precipitate a failed reverse stress test to analyse its risks and weaknesses.
Feasible remedial actions should be designed that could prevent the
consequences of such a scenario. For example, the bank could amend its
business strategy regarding a specific sector.
3.4 Supplementary Content Required in an ICAAP Report
145. The following supplementary topics should be documented in the ICAAP report.
(a) Summary of outstanding findings and required management actions from
pertinent assessments, examinations and audits (e.g. current outstanding
actions emanating from internal audits, external audits, risk management
assessments, capital management reviews, Central Bank examinations, and
Pillar 3, etc.), including the status of official actions;
(b) Key items which warrant immediate Central Bank attention, such as a projected
shortfall in regulatory minimum capital amount; a breach in outlier status under
IRRBB, and any other material risks;
(c) A list of the major changes compared to the previous ICAAP report, e.g. changes
in data, MIS, organisation, process, and methodology; and
(d) Key actions resulting from ICAAP discussions with the Board of Directors, in the
form of meeting minutes included as an Appendix. (Relevant evidence should
be made available upon request).
180

[Document: document.pdf, Page 183]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3
181

[Document: document.pdf, Page 184]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3 – Market Disclosures
I. Introduction
1. Market discipline has long been recognized as a key objective of the Central Bank of the
UAE. The provision of meaningful information about common key risk metrics to market
participants is a fundamental principle of a sound banking system. It reduces information
irregularity and helps promote comparability of banks’ risk profiles within UAE. Pillar 3 of the Basel
framework aims to promote market discipline through regulatory disclosure requirements. These
requirements enable market participants to access key information relating to a bank’s regulatory
capital and risk exposures in order to increase transparency and confidence about a bank’s
exposure to risk and the overall adequacy of its regulatory capital.
2. The revised Pillar 3 disclosures in this guidance focus on regulatory measures defined in
Pillar 1 of the Basel framework, which requires banks to adopt specified approaches for measuring
credit, market and operational risks and their associated resulting risk-weighted assets (RWA) and
capital requirements. In some instances, Pillar 3 also requires supplementary information to be
disclosed to improve the understanding of underlying risks. Central Bank continues to believe that
a common disclosure framework based around Pillar 1 is an effective means of informing the
market and allowing market participants to take informed investment decisions. However, in the
wake of the 2007–09 financial crisis, it became apparent that the existing Pillar 3 framework failed
to promote the identification of a bank’s material risks and did not provide sufficient, and
sufficiently comparable, information to enable market participants to assess a bank’s overall
capital adequacy and to compare it with its peers. The revised Pillar 3 disclosure requirements in
this guidance are based on an extensive review of Pillar 3 reports.
3. A key goal of the revised Pillar 3 disclosures is to improve comparability and consistency
of disclosures. However, it is recognized that a balance needs to be struck between the use of
mandatory templates that promote consistency of reporting and comparability across banks, and
the need to allow senior management sufficient flexibility to provide commentary on a bank’s
specific risk profile. For this reason, the revised disclosure regime introduces a “hierarchy” of
disclosures; prescriptive fixed form templates which are used for quantitative information that is
considered essential for the analysis of a bank’s regulatory capital requirements, and templates
with a more flexible format are proposed for information which is considered meaningful to the
UAE market but not central to the analysis of a bank’s regulatory capital adequacy. In addition,
senior management may accompany the disclosure requirements in each template with a
qualitative commentary that explains a bank’s particular circumstance and risk profile.
II. Disclosure of Pillar 3 information
A. Scope and implementation of the revised Pillar 3 framework
Scope of application
4. The revised disclosure requirements presented in this guidance supersede the existing
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements issued in 2009. These revised requirements are an integral part
of the Basel framework and they complement other disclosure requirements issued separately by
Central Bank, which are uploaded on Central Bank's website/online portal for banks to download.
182

[Document: document.pdf, Page 185]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 3 applies to all banks in the UAE at the top consolidated level for local banks and all
branches of foreign banks. Banks having a banking subsidiary will be required to be consolidated
at Group level as one Pillar 3 report as well as at subsidiary solo level as a separate Pillar 3 report
Banks offering Islamic financial services should comply with these disclosure requirements.
These requirements are applicable to their activities that are in line with Islamic Sharia rules and
principals, which are neither interest-based lending nor borrowing but are parallel to the activities
described in these Guidance and Explanatory Notes
Implementation date
5. The Pillar 3 tables and disclosures will be effective from the beginning of 2019 for the
previous year's figures and every year going forward. Banks need to report in each table as per
the requirements for that table set out in the Appendix since few tables are required to be reported
every quarter or semi-annually or annually.
Reporting
6. Banks should publish their Pillar 3 report in a stand-alone document on the bank’s UAE-
specific website that provides a readily accessible source of prudential measures for users. The
Pillar 3 report may be appended to form a discrete section of a bank’s financial reporting, but the
full report will be needed to be disclosed separately in the Pillar 3 tables as well.
7. Signposting of disclosure requirements is permitted in certain circumstances, as set out
in paragraphs 21–23 below. Banks should also make available on their websites a 5-year
archive of Pillar 3 reports (i.e. quarterly, semi-annual or annual) relating to prior reporting
periods (past 5 years’ data)
Frequency and timing of disclosures
8. The reporting frequencies for each disclosure requirement are set out in the schedule in
paragraph 27 below. The frequencies vary between quarterly, semi-annual and annual reporting
depending upon the nature of the specific disclosure requirement. If a bank publishes interim
financial statements, then the bank should publish the quarterly Pillar 3 report, three (3) weeks
after the interim financial statements are published. For banks who do not have an interim financial
statement, the Pillar 3 quarterly report needs to be published 6 weeks from quarter end.
9. A bank’s Pillar 3 report should be published with its financial report for the corresponding
period as mandated in paragraph 8 above. If a Pillar 3 disclosure is required to be published for
a period when a bank does not produce any financial report, the disclosure requirement should
be published as soon as possible. However, the time lag should not exceed that allowed to the
bank for its regular financial reporting period-ends (e.g. if a bank reports only annually and its
annual financial statements are made available six weeks after the end of the annual reporting
period-end, interim Pillar 3 disclosures on a quarterly and/or semi-annual basis should be
available within six weeks after the end of the relevant quarter or semester).
Assurance of Pillar 3 data
10. The information provided by banks under Pillar 3 should be subject, at a minimum, to the
same level of internal review and internal control processes as the information provided by banks
for their financial reporting (i.e. the level of assurance should be the same as for information
provided within the management discussion and analysis part of the financial report).
 The Pillar 3 Disclosures and reports have to be reviewed by internal audit of all bank for all
Pillar 3 reports.
183

[Document: document.pdf, Page 186]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 All local banks and large foreign banks will need to have the annual Pillar 3 reports externally
audited every two (2) years and smaller foreign banks (as defined in paragraph 27) will need
to have the annual Pillar 3 reports externally audited every four (4) years.
11. Banks should also have a formal board-approved disclosure policy for Pillar 3 information
that sets out the internal controls and procedures for disclosure of such information. The key
elements of this policy should be described in the year-end Pillar 3 report. The board of directors
and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal
control structure over the disclosure of financial information, including Pillar 3 disclosures. They
should also ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. One or more senior
officers of a bank, ideally at board level or equivalent, should attest in writing that Pillar 3
disclosures have been prepared in accordance with the board-agreed internal control processes.
For larger banks, Board member attestation will be expected.
Proprietary and confidential information
12. The Central Bank believes that the disclosure requirements set out below strike an
appropriate balance between the need for meaningful disclosure and the protection of proprietary
and confidential information. In exceptional cases, disclosure of certain items required by Pillar 3
may reveal the position of a bank or contravene its legal obligations by making public information
that is proprietary or confidential in nature. In such cases, a bank would need to approach the
Central Bank first and obtain approval for non-disclosure of such information they deem to be
confidential. The Central Bank will review the information and provide approval if the bank does
not need to disclose those specific items, but should disclose more general information about the
subject matter of the requirement instead. The bank should also explain to Central Bank the
specific items of information that cannot be disclosed and the reasons for this.
B. Guiding principles for banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures
13. The Central Bank has agreed upon five guiding principles for banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures.
Pillar 3 complements the minimum risk-based capital requirements and other quantitative
requirements (Pillar 1) and the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and aims to promote market
discipline by providing meaningful regulatory information to investors and other interested parties
on a consistent and comparable basis. The guiding principles aim to provide a firm foundation for
achieving transparent, high-quality Pillar 3 risk disclosures that will enable users to better
understand and compare a bank’s business and its risks.
14. The principles are as follows:
Principle 1: Disclosures should be clear
Disclosures should be presented in a form that is understandable to key stakeholders (i.e.
investors, analysts, financial customers and others) and communicated through an accessible
medium. Important messages should be highlighted and easy to find. Complex issues should be
explained in simple language with important terms defined. Related risk information should be
presented together.
Principle 2: Disclosures should be comprehensive
Disclosures should describe a bank’s main activities and all significant risks, supported by relevant
underlying data and information. Significant changes in risk exposures between reporting periods
should be described, together with the appropriate response by management.
Disclosures should provide sufficient information in both qualitative and quantitative terms on a
bank’s processes and procedures for identifying, measuring and managing those risks. The level
of detail of such disclosure should be proportionate to a bank’s complexity.
184

[Document: document.pdf, Page 187]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Approaches to disclosure should be sufficiently flexible to reflect how senior management and the
board of directors internally assess and manage risks and strategy, helping users to better
understand a bank’s risk tolerance/appetite.
Principle 3: Disclosures should be meaningful to users
Disclosures should highlight a bank’s most significant current and emerging risks and how those
risks are managed, including information that is likely to receive market attention. Where
meaningful, linkages should be provided to line items on the balance sheet or the income
statement. Disclosures that do not add value to users’ understanding or do not communicate
useful information should be avoided. Furthermore, information, which is no longer meaningful or
relevant to users, should be removed.
Principle 4: Disclosures should be consistent over time
Disclosures should be consistent over time to enable key stakeholders to identify trends in a
bank’s risk profile across all significant aspects of its business. Additions, deletions and other
important changes in disclosures from previous reports, including those arising from a bank’s
specific, regulatory or market developments, should be highlighted and explained.
Principle 5: Disclosures should be comparable across banks
The level of detail and the format of presentation of disclosures should enable key stakeholders
to perform meaningful comparisons of business activities, prudential metrics, risks and risk
management between banks and across jurisdictions.
C. Presentation of the disclosure requirements
Templates and tables
15. The disclosure requirements are presented either in the form of templates or of tables.
Templates should be completed with quantitative data in accordance with the definitions provided.
Tables generally relate to qualitative requirements, but quantitative information is also required in
some instances. Banks may choose the format they prefer when presenting the information
requested in tables.
16. In line with Principle 3 above, the information provided in the templates and tables should
be meaningful to users. The disclosure requirements in this guidance that necessitate an
assessment from banks are specifically identified. When preparing these individual tables and
templates, banks will need to consider carefully how widely the disclosure requirement should
apply. If a bank considers that the information requested in a template or table would not be
meaningful to users, for example because the exposures and RWA amounts are deemed
immaterial, it may choose not to disclose part or all of the information requested. In such
circumstances, however, the bank will be required to explain in a narrative commentary why it
considers such information not to be meaningful to users. It should describe the portfolios
excluded from the disclosure requirement and the aggregate total RWAs those portfolios
represent.
Templates with a fixed format
17. Where the format of a template is described as fixed, banks should complete the fields in
accordance with the instructions given.
18. If a row/column is not considered to be relevant to a bank’s activities the bank may delete
the specific row/column from the template, but the numbering of the subsequent rows and
columns should not be altered. Banks may add extra rows and extra columns to fixed format
templates if they wish to provide additional detail to a disclosure requirement by adding sub-rows
185

[Document: document.pdf, Page 188]
CBUAE Classification: Public
or columns, but the numbering of prescribed rows and columns in the template should not be
altered.
Templates/tables with a flexible format
19. Where the format of a template is described as flexible, banks may present the required
information either in the format provided in this guidance or in one that better suits the bank. The
format for the presentation of qualitative information in tables is not prescribed.
20. However, where a customized presentation of the information is used, the bank should
provide information comparable with that required in the disclosure requirement (i.e. at a similar
level of granularity as if the template/table were completed as presented in this document).
Signposting
21. Banks may disclose in a document separate from their Pillar 3 report (e.g. in a bank’s
annual report or through published regulatory reporting) the templates/tables with a flexible
format, and the fixed format templates where the criteria in paragraph 22 are met. In such
circumstances, the specific Pillar 3 table(s) may form a section in a bank’s financial reporting, but
the full table will be needed to be disclosed in the Pillar 3 tables separately as well.
22. The disclosure requirements for templates with a fixed format can be disclosed by banks
in a separate document other than the Pillar 3 report provided all of the following criteria are met:
• the information contained in the signposted document is equivalent in terms of presentation and
content to that required in the fixed template and allows users to make meaningful comparisons
with information provided by banks disclosing the fixed format templates;
• the information contained in the signposted document is based on the same scope of
consolidation as the one used in the disclosure requirement;
• the disclosure in the signposted document is mandatory.
Banks should note that although signposting may be allowed in the annual report, the bank would
still need to disclose this table separately in the Pillar 3 Disclosure along with all other tables
mentioned in paragraph 27 below.
23. Banks can only make use of signposting to another document if the level of assurance on
the reliability of data in the separate document are equivalent to, or greater than, the internal
assurance level required for the Pillar 3 report (see sections on reporting and assurance of Pillar
3 data above).
Qualitative narrative to accompany the disclosure requirements
24. Banks are expected to supplement the quantitative information provided in both fixed and
flexible templates with a narrative commentary to explain at least any significant changes between
reporting periods and any other issues that management considers to be of interest to market
participants. The form taken by this additional narrative is at the bank’s discretion.
25. Disclosure of additional quantitative and qualitative information will provide market
participants with a broader picture of a bank´s risk position and promote market discipline.
26. Additional voluntary risk disclosures allow banks to present information relevant to their
business model that may not be adequately captured by the standardised requirements.
Additional quantitative information that banks choose to disclose should provide sufficient
meaningful information to enable market participants to understand and analyze any figures
provided. It should also be accompanied by a qualitative discussion. Any additional disclosure
should comply with the five guiding principles set out in paragraph 14 above.
186

[Document: document.pdf, Page 189]
CBUAE Classification: Public
D. Format and reporting frequency of each disclosure requirement
27. The schedule below presents a summary of the disclosure requirements, whether they are required in a fixed or flexible format.
It also lists the publishing frequency associated with each template and table. Please also note that the below tables will be available
as an Excel file on the Central Bank alert portal on the Central Bank's website for download.
Please note: It is mandatory for all local banks to report all tables as per below schedule. It is also mandatory for branches of foreign
banks with RWA of more than AED 5 billion to report all tables as per below schedule.
Branches of foreign banks with RWA of less than AED 5 billion should report the below tables highlighted in Yellow and BOLD only
as mandatory.
Disclosure
Topic
Table Information Overview Format Frequency
KM1 Key metrics (at consolidated group level) Fixed Quarterly
Overview of risk
OVA Bank risk management approach Flexible Annual
management and RWA
OV1 Overview of RWA Fixed Quarterly
Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes of
consolidation and mapping of financial statement categories
Linkages between financial LI1 with regulatory risk categories Flexible Annual
statements and regulatory Main sources of differences between regulatory exposure
exposures LI2 amounts and carrying values in financial statements Flexible Annual
Explanations of differences between accounting and regulatory
LIA exposure amounts Flexible Annual
Prudential valuation
adjustments PV1 Prudent valuation adjustments Fixed Annual
CC1 Composition of regulatory capital Fixed Semi-annual
Composition of capital CC2 Reconciliation of regulatory capital to balance sheet Flexible Semi-annual
CCA Main features of regulatory capital instruments Fixed Semi-annual
Geographical distribution of credit exposures used in the
Macroprudential CCyB1 countercyclical buffer Flexible Semi-annual
Supervisory measures Summary comparison of accounting assets vs leverage ratio
LR1 exposure measure (January 2014 standards) Fixed Quarterly
Leverage ratio common disclosure template (January 2014
Leverage ratio
LR2 standards) Fixed Quarterly
187

[Document: document.pdf, Page 190]
CBUAE Classification: Public
LIQA Liquidity risk management Flexible Annual
LIQ1 Liquidity Coverage Ratio Fixed Quarterly
Liquidity LIQ2 Net Stable Funding Ratio Fixed Semi-annual
CRA General qualitative information about credit risk Flexible Annual
CR1 Credit quality of assets Fixed Semi-annual
CR2 Changes in the stock of defaulted loans and debt securities Fixed Semi-annual
CRB Additional disclosure related to credit quality of assets Flexible Annual
CRC Qualitative information on the mitigation of credit risk Flexible Annual
CR3 Credit risk mitigation techniques – overview Fixed Semi-annual
Qualitative disclosures on banks' use of external credit ratings
Credit risk CRD under the standardised approach for credit risk Flexible Annual
Standardised approach - credit risk exposure and CRM
CR4 effects Fixed Semi-annual
Standardised approach - exposures by asset classes and
CR5 risk weights Fixed Semi-annual
CCRA Qualitative disclosure related to CCR Flexible Annual
CCR1 Analysis of CCR by approach Fixed Semi-annual
CCR2 Credit valuation adjustment capital charge Fixed Semi-annual
Standardised approach - CCR exposures by regulatory portfolio
CCR3 and risk weights Fixed Semi-annual
Counterparty credit risk
(CCR)
CCR5 Composition of collateral for CCR exposure Flexible Semi-annual
CCR6 Credit derivatives exposures Flexible Semi-annual
CCR8 Exposures to central counterparties Fixed Semi-annual
SECA Qualitative disclosures related to securitisation exposures Flexible Annual
SEC1 Securitisation exposures in the banking book Flexible Semi-annual
SEC2 Securitisation exposures in the trading book Flexible Semi-annual
Securitisation Securitisation exposures in the banking book and associated
regulatory capital requirements - bank acting as originator or as
SEC3 sponsor Fixed Semi-annual
188

[Document: document.pdf, Page 191]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Securitisation exposures in the trading book and associated
SEC4 capital requirements - bank acting as investor Fixed Semi-annual
General qualitative disclosure requirements related to market
MRA risk Flexible Annual
Market risk MR1 Market risk under the standardised approach Fixed Semi-annual
IRRBBA IRRBB risk management objectives and policies Flexible Annual
Interest rate risk in the IRRBB1 Quantitative information on IRRBB Fixed Annual
banking book (IRRBB) OR1 Qualitative disclosures on operational risk Flexible Annual
Operational risk REMA Remuneration policy Flexible Annual
REM1 Remuneration awarded during the financial year Flexible Annual
REM2 Special payments Flexible Annual
Remuneration Policy
REM3 Deferred remuneration Flexible Annual
189

[Document: document.pdf, Page 192]
CBUAE Classification: Public
III. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: One or more senior officers of a bank, ideally at board level or equivalent,
should attest in writing that Pillar 3 disclosures have been prepared in accordance
with the board-agreed internal control processes. For banks of foreign branches, is
Country Manager or CFO at Head office attestation sufficient?
For local banks and large foreign banks, Board member attestation will be expected. For
smaller foreign bank branches, Country Manager/GM will be sufficient
Question 2: There are requirements on the Pillar III disclosure that is dependent on
the BASEL returns (BRF 95), in relation to this, the submission that mentions 6 weeks
after the end of the relevant quarter starts from the BASEL quarter reporting deadline
or actual quarter end?
Pillar 3 disclosure submission will be 6 weeks after the quarter end date. For example,
December quarter submission will be 6 weeks from December 31st and not 6 weeks from
January 31st. Since the BRF95 should mandatorily be submitted by banks within 4 weeks
from quarter end, the bank still has additional 2 weeks to complete the Pillar 3 disclosures
based on BRF95.
Question 3: Pillar 3 applies to all banks in the UAE at the top consolidated level for
local banks... Please clarify in case of subsidiary of a bank, whether revised pillar 3
disclosures will be required to be prepared at consolidated Group level or stand-alone
level?
Bank subsidiaries will be consolidated at stand-alone subsidiary level and the group bank
will be consolidated at the stand-alone of the group bank only without the bank’s subsidiary
data.
Question 4: Pillar 3 disclosures can be presented in a separate report; however, Can
it be signposted to the audited financial statements?
Signposting is allowed if the bank chooses to use the same template in their audited financial
statements but a separate reporting template needs to be prepared as per Pillar 3 templates
which is mandatory and cannot be omitted from the Pillar 3 tables.
Question 5: If any section/ table of Template is not applicable to the Bank (i.e. DSIBs,
Securitisation), shall the Bank exclude this section/ table completely irrespective of
type of table.
Yes, banks can exclude the tables/templates not pertaining to the bank, for example DSIB
and Securitisation
Question 6: Banks should also have a formal board-approved disclosure policy for
Pillar 3 information that sets out the internal controls and procedures for disclosure
of such information. Should this formal Disclosure policy still be submitted to Central
Bank along with ICAAP or it shall only be published / disclosed as mentioned?
The formal disclosure policy should not be submitted but should be available on request by
Central Bank of UAE.
Question 7: Will it be sufficient to publish Basel 3 disclosures on its investor relations
page on the bank’s website without any physical printouts?
Banks should publish their Pillar 3 report in a stand-alone document on the bank’s UAE-
specific website. This can be anywhere on the website but it needs to be clearly visible and
easily available for all stakeholders. Banks which do not have a UAE-Specific website should
create a website specific to UAE so that all stakeholders can have access to the Pillar 3
disclosures of the bank.
Question 8: For REM1 template, is Central Bank expecting the Bank to report overseas
earnings or only the locally paid compensation? Are deferrals awarded in the current
190

[Document: document.pdf, Page 193]
CBUAE Classification: Public
year only to be reported? If an employee has a deferral which has a tranche of a prior
year paid out after they have left the Branch, is it expected that this would be reported
or not? If a prior year tranches awarded is reported should this be reported if the
individual is no longer an employee of the Branch?
All contract earnings of all employees need to be reported even if the employee is earning
compensation in UAE and outside UAE. The full contractual award needs to be mentioned
and not only the physical payout
Question 9: Is the End of Service Benefit (EOSB) i.e. severance payment for a normal
leaver to be reported depending upon the definition of “other material risk taker” OR
are banks also required to report any additional payment such as a redundancy type
payment? Should a transfer of Senior Management personnel or Other Material Risk-
takers to other branch of the Bank be considered as severance for reporting purpose?
All payments regardless of the type of payment based on the contract needs to be reported
Question 10: For branches of foreign banks where the Head Office reports to the home
regulator, there are pre-fixed formats prepared and submitted at a frequency as
stipulated by home regulator. Can the branch of foreign banks provide such reports
in UAE which are submitted to the home regulator as a part of UAE Pillar 3
Disclosures?
Reports sent between Head Office and UAE needs to be separated and only the Pillar 3
disclosures as per this Guidance needs to be reported for UAE branches in the mandatory
formats published here.
Question 11: What does “Fully loaded” ECL accounting model mean and what is the
difference between total capital and fully loaded capital?
"Fully Loaded" means bank’s regulatory capital compared with a situation where the
transitional arrangement had not been applied
Question 12: For branches of foreign banks, would Central Bank allow for a transition
period if the threshold for partial disclosure is reached? (i.e. if RWA exceed AED 5
billion)
Transition will be granted on a case by case basis
Question 13: Currently CCyB buffer is 0% in UAE. In this case, what do banks need to
report in CCyB template?
Currently CCyB is not applicable in UAE but if banks in UAE have branches in other countries
this needs to be reported if CCyB is being reported as per that foreign country’s regulations.
Banks, hence, need to calculate and fill the CCyB1 as explained in the Capital Supply
standards.
Question 14: In Sheet CR5, for "Unrated" Category, should we include the Post CRM
and CCF amounts in their respective Risk Weight categories or should we club it
under "Others"?
Yes, it can be placed in “Others” along with any other ratings.
Question 15: In Sheet OV1, is the minimum requirements simply 10.5% of the RWA.
Pillar 1 capital requirements at the reporting date will normally be RWA*10.5% but may differ
if a floor is applicable or adjustments (such as scaling factors).
Question 16: CCR8 requires Bank to report Exposures to Non QCCPs (excluding initial
margin and default fund contribution) arising of (i) OTC derivatives, (ii) Exchange-
traded derivatives, (iii) Securities financing transactions & (iv) Netting sets where
cross-product netting has been approved. Does this mean the Exposures computed
under SA-CCR which are eligible under Netting Jurisdiction to be disclosed under
(iv)?
Currently, UAE has no netting jurisdiction but such exposures reported will be taken into
191

[Document: document.pdf, Page 194]
CBUAE Classification: Public
consideration on a case-by-case basis.
Question 17: LIQA, Liquidity exposures and funding needs at the level of individual
legal entities, foreign branches and subsidiaries, taking into account legal, regulatory
and operational limitations on the transferability of capital. Are insurance or non-bank
subsidiaries to be included?
All entities that are consolidated by the bank must be included.
Question 18: LIQA, Balance sheet and off-balance sheet items broken down into
maturity buckets and the resultant liquidity gaps. Is there any format for reporting the
liquidity gap report?
As per BRF 9 reported by the bank. The bank may add a section for Off Balance sheet as
required
192

[Document: document.pdf, Page 195]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Leverage Ratio
193