[Document: PI.pdf, Page 1]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Pillar 1
2

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 2]
CBUAE Classification: Public
I. Tier Capital Supply
Introduction
This guidance explains how banks can comply with the Tier Capital Supply Standard. It
must be read in conjunction with the Capital Regulation and Standards for Capital
Adequacy of Banks in the UAE. Guidance regarding Minimum Capital Requirement and
Capital buffer as stated in the document have to be followed by all banks for the
purpose of regulatory compliance.
1. To help and ensure a consistent and transparent implementation of Capital supply
standards, Central Bank will review and update this guidance document periodically.
2. The guidance document has structured into six main sections
1. Scope of Application
2. Eligible capital
3. Regulatory adjustments
4. Threshold deductions
5. Significant investment in commercial entities
6. Frequently Asked Questions
1. Scope of Application
3. “Financial activities” do not include insurance activities and “financial entities” do not
include insurance entities.
4. Examples of the types of activities that financial entities might be involved in include
financial leasing, issuing credit cards, portfolio management, investment advisory, custodial and
safekeeping services and other similar activities that are ancillary to the business of banking
Treatment of investment in Insurance Entities
5. Insurance subsidiaries are to be deconsolidated for regulatory capital purposes (i.e. all
equity, assets, liabilities and third-party capital investments in such insurance entities are to be
removed from the bank’s balance sheet) and the book value of the investment in the subsidiary
is to be included in the aggregate investments.
6. Investments in the capital of insurance entities where the bank owns more than 10% of
the insurance entity’s common share capital will be subject to the “Threshold deductions”
treatment. Amounts below the threshold that are not deducted are to be risk weighted at 250 %.
(Investments in insurance entities wherein ownership is greater than 10% will also include
insurance subsidiaries)
3

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 3]
CBUAE Classification: Public
2. Eligible capital
Accumulated other comprehensive income and other disclosed reserve
7. For unrealized fair value reserves relating to financial instruments to be included in CET1
capital banks and their auditor must only recognize such gains or losses that are prudently valued
and independently verifiable (e.g. by reference to market prices). Prior prudent valuations, and
the independent verification thereof, are mandatory.
8. The amount of cumulative unrealized losses arising from the changes in fair value of
financial instruments, including loans/financing and receivables, classified as “available-for-sale”
shall be fully deducted in the calculation of CET1 Capital.
9. Revaluation reserves or cumulative unrealized gains shall be added to CET 1 with a
haircut of 55%.
10. The amount of cumulative unrealized gains arising from the changes in the fair value or
revaluation of bank’s own premises and real estate investment are not allowed to be included as
part of Asset Revaluation reserve for regulatory purposes.
11. IFRS9 will be implemented during 2018. Banks that are impacted significantly from the
implementation of IFRS9 may approach the Central Bank to apply for a transition period for the
IFRS9 impact. Such applications will be analysed and considered on a case-by-case basis.
Retained Earnings
12. The amount reported under accumulated retained earnings (5.1.4.1) should be as per the
audited financial statement at year end and should remain the same for the entire financial year.
13. Current financial year’s/quarter’s profits can only be taken into account after they are
properly audited/ reviewed by the external auditors of the bank. Current financial years /quarter’s
loss if incurred have to be deductedfrom the capital.
14. Dividend expected/ proposed for the financial year should be reported under 5.1.4.3 and
will be deducted from Retained Earnings/ (Loss) (5.1.4). Expected dividend applies only for Q4
until dividend is actually paid.
15. The dividend deduction must be updated based on each of the following events, if the
amount changes, after Annual General meeting, or the approval from the Central Ban, or the
release of the Financial Statements by the auditors.
16. Other adjustments to the Retained Earnings includes
a. Prudential filter: Partial addback of ECL in accordance with the Regulation Regarding
Accounting Provisions and Capital Requirements - Transitional Arrangements should be
reported under 5.1.4.4 IFRS transitional arrangement.
4

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 4]
CBUAE Classification: Public
b. CBUAE Regulatory deductions:
i. Amount exceeding Large Exposure threshold: Any amount that is in violation of
Large Exposure regulation of notice 300/2013 shall be deducted from the capital.
Any amount deducted from CET1 under 5.1.4.5 of the BRF 95 due to a Large
Exposure violation of notice no.226/2018 may be excluded for the calculation of
risk weighted assets. However, amounts that are not deducted must be included
in risk weighted assets. Furthermore, any counterparty credit risk (under CR2a)
associated with such exposure must remain included in the calculation of risk
weighted asset.
ii. Loans to directors: The circular 83/2019 on Corporate Governance regulations for
Banks, under the article (6) “Transaction with Related parties” requires if the
transaction with the related parties are not provided on arm’s length basis, then on
general or case by case basis, deduct such exposure from capital. The deduction
should be reported under 5.1.4.5 of the BRF 95.
Capital Buffers - Countercyclical Buffer
17. The buffer for internationally active banks will be a weighted average of the buffers
deployed across all the jurisdictions to which it has credit exposures. The buffer that will apply to
each bank will reflect the geographic composition of its portfolio of credit exposures. When
considering the jurisdiction to which a private sector credit exposure relates, banks should use,
where possible, an ultimate risk basis; i.e. it should use the country where the guarantor of the
exposure resides, not where the exposure has been booked.
18. Banks will have to look at the geographic location of their private sector credit exposures
(including non-bank financial sector exposures) and calculate their countercyclical capital buffer
requirement as a weighted average of the buffers that are being applied in jurisdictions to which
they have an exposure. Credit exposures in this case include all private sector credit exposures
that attract a credit risk capital charge or the risk weighted equivalent trading book capital charges
for specific risk and securitisation.
19. The weighting applied to the buffer in place in each jurisdiction will be the bank’s total
credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures in that jurisdiction, divided by the
bank’s total credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures across all jurisdictions.
Banks must determine whether the ultimate counterparty is a private sector exposure, as well as
the location of the “ultimate risk”, to the extent possible.
20. The charge for the relevant portfolio should be allocated to the geographic regions of the
constituents of the portfolio by calculating the proportion of the portfolio’s total credit exposure
arising from credit exposure to counterparties in each geographic region.
Please refer to Question 15 of the FAQs below for further guidance and examples of
countercyclical buffers.
5

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 5]
CBUAE Classification: Public
3. Regulatory adjustments
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
21. Intangible assets typically do not generate any cash flows and hence their value, when a
bank is in need of immediate additional capital to absorb losses, is uncertain. For this reason, all
intangible assets are deducted from CET1 (5.1.8.1).
22. From regulatory perspective, goodwill and intangible assets have the same meaning as
under IFRS.
23. Capitalized software costs that is not “integral to hardware” is to be treated as an intangible
asset and software that is “integral to hardware” is to be treated as property, plant and equipment
(i.e. as a fixed asset).
24. The amount of intangible assets to be deducted should be net of any associated deferred
tax liability (DTL) that would be extinguished if the asset became impaired or derecognised under
the applicable accounting standards.
25. Goodwill and intangible assets that are deducted from CET1, they are excluded from the
calculation of RWA for credit risk exposure value.
Deferred Tax Assets
26. Deferredtaxassets(DTAs)typicallyarisewhen abank:
 suffers a net loss in a financial year and is permitted to carry forward this loss to offset
future profits when calculating its tax bill (net losses carried forward)
 has to reduce the value of an asset on the balance sheet, but this 'loss in value' is not
recognised by the tax authorities until a future period (temporary timing difference)
27. DTAs arising from net losses carried forward have to be deducted in full from a bank's
CET1 (5.1.8.2). This recognises that their value can only be derived through the existence of
future taxable income. On the other hand, a DTA relying on future profitability and arising from
temporary timing differences is subject to the 'threshold deduction rule' (5.1.9.2).
4. Threshold Deduction
28. The purpose of calculating the threshold is to limit the significant investments in the
common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions (banks, insurance and other financial
entities) and deferred tax assets (arising from temporary differences) to 15% of the CET1 after all
deduction (Deduction includes regulatory deductions and the amount of significant investments
in the common shares of unconsolidated financial institutions and deferred tax assets in full).
29. Therefore, significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial
institutions and deferred tax assets may receive limited recognition of 10% CET1 individually (CET
after regulatory adjustment outlined in section3 of the Tier Capital Supply Standard).
30. The amount that is recognised will receive risk weight of 250% and the remaining amount
will be deducted. See Appendix 5 for example.
6

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 6]
CBUAE Classification: Public
5. Significant investment in commercial entities
31. For purposes of this section, 'significant investments' in a commercial entity is defined as
any investment in the capital instruments of a commercial entity by a bank which is equivalent to
or more than 10% of CET 1 of the bank (after application of regulatory and threshold deduction).
See Appendix 3 for an example.
6. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: When will the Standards, Guidance and Template with regards to Solo reporting be
issued by the Central Bank?
The Central Bank will issue all related material regarding Solo reporting during 2020. Formal
communication will be issued in advance.
Question 2: What is meant by the book value of an investment?
The book value of an investment shall be in accordance with the applicable accountingframework