
italics. They should also not be worded in a way that makes it unclear whether they do
actually apply (e.g. ‘it is expected that’, ‘if required by the regulation’, etc.). Terms and
conditions must be worded clearly.
c. The wording used must be in accordance with that in the Capital Standards/ Guidance.
d. The text should avoid making references to ‘as determined by the bank’ or to regulatory
reporting dates. All requirements must be fulfilled at any time.
e. It is not desirable to specify the reference to say ‘under applicable law’ or ‘if required by
the applicable banking rules’ when it is clear that legal requirements come directly from
the Central Bank, Capital Regulation, Standards or as Guidance.
f. A detailed list may easily create the impression that the list maybe exhaustive. The bank
has to clearly note when a list is not exhaustive.
Distributable Items:
3. The definition of distributable items may change when the Central Bank introduces the
solo level concept.
Subordination:
4. Additional Tier 1 instruments willrank below Tier 2 instruments by virtue of subordination.
The instrument should not be subject to set-off or netting arrangements that would undermine the
instrument's capacity to absorb losses.
Redemption Notices:
5. Where a notice has not been revoked as of the relevant date, it follows that a payment is
due to the holder. Any non-payment thereafter may trigger an enforcement event. Any notice for
redemption should become void and null as soon as the Central Bank declares that a PONV
trigger event has occurred.
Call of Instruments:
a. Optional Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument at its option but only
after a period of 5 years.
18

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 18]
CBUAE Classification: Public
b. Regulatory Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instrument in case of a capital
event so that they become or, as appropriate, remain, qualified regulatory capital.
However, the amount in case of a capital event can be the outstanding amount or the
amount that qualifies as regulatory capital, if some amount of the instrument is held by the
issuer or whose purchase is funded by the issuer, save where such non-qualification is only
as a result of any applicable limitation on the amount of such capital.
c. Tax Call:
The Central Bank does not prohibit the issuer to call the instruments in case of a tax event.
A tax event may occur at any time on or after the issue date. A tax event can occur as a
result of a change in the applicable tax treatment of the instrument.
Note that both the optional call and the tax call require the Central Bank’s approval.
Changes of Terms and conditions:
a. Insignificant Changes to Terms and Conditions (Variation):
The issuer may vary the terms and conditions of the instrument subject to the condition of
redemption in the Tier capital instrument Standard. Variation of the terms and conditions of the
instrument can occur on optional call regulatory call, or tax call. Changes must be legally
enforceable.
b. Significant Changes to Terms and Conditions:
Significant changes to the terms and conditions of the instrument will require the approval of the
holders. Every instrument that undergoes significant changes needs to meet all requirements of
the Tier Capital Instruments Standard.
Every instrument with changed terms and conditions need to be re-approved by the Central Bank
by applying Stage 2 of the Approval Process in Appendix B of the Tier Capital Instruments
Standard (Stage 1 of the Approval Process can be omitted in this case).
Coupon Payments:
6. No provision should link a change in payments to contractual, statutory or other
obligations, as payments are fully discretionary. Payments should also not be linked to payments
on other Additional Tier 1 instruments.
Dividend and Redemption Restrictions:
7. Dividend stopper arrangements that prevent for example dividend payments on common
shares are not prohibited by the Central Bank. Furthermore, dividend stopper arrangements that
prevent dividend payments on other Additional Tier 1 instruments are not prohibited by Central
Bank. However, stoppers must not impede the full discretion that bank must have at all times to
cancel distributions/payments on the instrument, nor must they act in a way that could hinder the
recapitalization of the bank. For example, it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional
Tier 1 instrument to:
i. attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments on this other
instrument were not also fully discretionary;
ii. prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond the point in time
that dividends/coupons on the instrument are resumed;
iii. impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity (including
acquisitions/disposals).
8. A dividend stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the payment of
19

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary share buybacks. The dividend stopper will
remain until one coupon following the dividend stopper date has been made in full or an amount
equal to the same has been duly set aside or provided for in full for the benefit of the holders of
the instrument.
Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA):
To further clarify the MDA’s calculation, below is an example of the calculation:
Bank Capital Holdings 14.0%
Bank Capital Requirements %
CET1 7.0%
AT1 1.5%
Tier 2 2.0%
Pillar 2 0.0%
Capital Conservation Buffer 2.5%
Countercyclical Buffer 0.000%
D-SIB Buffer 1.5%
Total 14.5%
Combined Buffer 4.0%
Quartile of Buffer 1.0%
Bank Capital Gap 0.5%
Quartile 1 Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Quartile 4
0.0 1.0% 1.0% 2.0% 2.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0%
The bank first will need to fulfill all minimum requirements. As the bank only has CET1 capital
available, it needs to use CET1 capital to fulfill all minimum capital requirements
(10.5%=7%+1.5%+2%). After fulfilling the minimum capital requirements, the bank has still 3.5%
(=14.0%-10.5%) CET1 capital available to fulfill the combined buffer requirements of 4%. Hence,
the Bank’s capital gap is 0.5%.
From the table above 3.5% means that the bank is in the fourth of the buffer requirements.
Therefore, the MDA is restricted to 60% of the bank’s earnings, which means the bank may
distribute no other restrictions and limitations considered, up to 60% of the earnings in the form
of dividend, Additional Tier 1 payments, and variable remuneration.
Note that items considered to be distributions include dividends and share buybacks,
discretionary payments on other Tier 1 capital instruments and discretionary bonus payments to
staff. Payments that do not result in a depletion of CET1, which may for example include certain
scrip dividends, are not considered distributions.
20

[Document: PI.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Note also that earnings are defined as distributable profits calculated prior to the deduction of
elements subject to the restriction on distributions. Earnings are calculated after the tax, which
would have been reported had none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact
of making, such distributions are reversed out. Where a bank does not have positive earnings
and has a CET1 ratio less than 9.5%, it would be restricted from making positive net distributions.
Gross-up Clauses:
Gross-up clauses for Additional Tier 1:
9. Gross up clauses are acceptable only if:
i. It is activated by decision of the local tax authority of the issuer and not the investor,
ii. The increased payments do not exceed distributable items,
iii. The gross-up is in relation to the dividend and not the principal.
Gross up Clauses for Tier 2:
10. The second condition related to distributable items is not relevant for Tier 2 instruments,
as Tier 2 coupons are not restricted by the amount of available distributable items. Therefore, Tier
2 gross-up clauses can be considered as acceptable if they are activated by a decision of the
local tax authority of the issuer, and if they relate to dividend and not on principal. The other two
conditions on gross-up clauses are, however, activation is still required by a local tax authority of
the issuer and not the investor, and the gross-up is in relation to the dividend payments only not
principal.
Point of Non-Viability (PONV):
11. The issuance of any new shares as a result of the Point of Non-Viability must occur prior
to any public sector injection of capital so that the capital provided by the public sector is not
diluted.
Further guidance on grandfathering:
12. If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for grandfathering begins its final five-year amortisation
period prior to 1st January 2018, the base for grandfathering in this case must take into account
the amortised amount, not the full nominal amount. As for the rate, if a Tier 2 instrument eligible
for grandfathering begins its final amortisation period on 1st January 2018, then individual
instruments will continue to be amortised at a rate of 20% per year while the grandfathering cap
will bereduced at a rate of 10% per year. Note that each tranche needs to be treated as a separate
tranche.
Amortisation of Tier 2 instruments:
13. During the last 5 years of the eligibility before maturity, the eligibility of Tier 2 instruments
is written down by 20% per year, i.e. the eligible amount is calculated by multiplying:
i. The nominal amount of the instruments on the first day of the final five year period of their
contractual maturity divided by the number of calendar days in that period;
ii. The number of remaining calendar days until the contractual maturity of the instruments.
21