
reference entity as long as a credit event on the senior reference asset would result
in a credit event on the subordinated reference asset.
 For tranched products, the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives
must be on a reference obligation with the same level of seniority.
Another required condition is that the credit protection purchased through credit
derivatives is not purchased from a counterparty whose credit quality is highly correlated with
the value of the reference obligation, which would generate wrong-way risk. Specifically, the
credit quality of the counterparty must not be positively correlated with the value of the
reference obligation (i.e. the credit quality of the counterparty falls when the value of the
reference obligation falls and the value of the purchased credit derivative increases). This
determination should reflect careful analysis of the actual risk; a legal connection does not
need to exist between the counterparty and the underlying reference entity.
For the purposes of the leverage ratio, the term “written credit derivative” refers to a
broad range of credit derivatives through which a bank effectively provides credit protection
and is not limited solely to credit default swaps and total return swaps. For example, all
options where the bank has the obligation to provide credit protection under certain
conditions qualify as “written credit derivatives.” The effective notional amount of such
options sold by the bank may be offset by the effective notional amount of options by which
the bank has the right to purchase credit protection that fulfils the conditions stated in the
Standards. For example, to have the same or more conservative material terms, the strike
price of the underlying purchased credit protection would need to be equal to or lower than
the strike price of the underlying sold credit protection.
f. Securities Financing Transaction (SFT) Exposures
Secured lending and borrowing in the form of SFTs is an important source of
leverage. How the framework measures exposure from SFTs depends on whether the bank
is acting as a principal or agent. For principal banks, the exposure measure is equal to the
sum of gross SFT assets (gross receivables related to SFTs, with some adjustments) and
an amount representing counterparty credit risk. When acting as an agent, depending on the
structure of the SFT, a bank may be able to ignore the collateral involved and reflect only the
counterparty credit risk component, or it may have to include both. The framework also
198

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 19]
CBUAE Classification: Public
includes specific rules for SFTs that qualify for sale treatment under the operative accounting
regime.
A degree of netting is allowed for SFTs, but only where strict criteria are met (for
example, same counterparty, same maturity date). In these cases, the net position provides
the better measure of the degree of leverage in a set of transactions between counterparties.
When a bank acts as a principal, its SFT exposure is the sum of gross SFT assets
(subject to adjustments) and a measure of counterparty credit risk calculated as the current
exposure without an add-on for potential future exposure.
For SFT assets subject to novation and cleared through QCCPs, “gross SFT assets
recognized for accounting purposes” are replaced by the final contractual exposure, that is,
the exposure to the QCCP after the process of novation has been applied, given that pre-
existing contracts have been replaced by new legal obligations through the novation process.
However, banks can only net cash receivables and cash payables with a QCCP if the
requisite criteria are met. Any other netting permitted by the QCCP is not permitted for the
purposes of the Basel III leverage ratio. Gross SFT assets recognized for accounting
purposes must not recognize any accounting netting of cash payables against cash
receivables (e.g. as currently permitted under the IFRS accounting framework). This
regulatory treatment has the benefit of avoiding inconsistencies from netting which may arise
across different accounting regimes.
Where a bank acting as an agent in an SFT does not provide an indemnity or
guarantee to any of the involved parties, the bank is not exposed to the SFT and therefore
need not recognize those SFTs in its leverage ratio exposure measure.
In situations where a bank is economically exposed beyond providing an indemnity
or guarantee for the difference between the value of the security or cash its customer has
lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided, a further exposure equal to
the full amount of the security or cash must be included in the leverage ratio exposure
measure. An example of this scenario could arise due to the bank managing collateral
received in the bank’s name or on its own account rather than on the customer’s or
borrower’s account (e.g. by on-lending or managing unsegregated collateral, cash or
securities). However, this does not apply to client omnibus accounts that are used by agent
lenders to hold and manage client collateral provided that client collateral is segregated from
the bank’s proprietary assets and the bank calculates the exposure on a client-by-client
basis.
g. Off-Balance Sheet Items
OBS items arise from such transactions as credit and liquidity commitments,
guarantees and standby letters of credit. The amount that is included in the exposure
measure is determined by multiplying the notional amount of an OBS item by the relevant
credit conversion factor (CCF) from the Central Bank’s Standards for Leverage Ratio.
The off-balance-sheet exposure measure will be calculated using credit equivalent
values. This reflects the fact that the degree of leverage in these transactions is not the same
as if banks had made fully funded loans. That is, a 100% credit conversion factor (CCF)
overestimates leverage. The use of standardised CCFs retains a consistent and
conservative treatment that is not dependent on the risk of the bank’s counterparty.
Where there is an undertaking to provide a commitment on an off-balance-sheet item,
banks are to apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs. For example:
 If a bank has a commitment to open short-term self-liquidating trade letters of credit
arising from the movement of goods, a 20% CCF will apply, instead of a 40% CCF;
and
199

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 20]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 If a bank has an unconditionally cancellable commitment to issue direct credit
substitutes, a 10% CCF will apply, instead of a 100% CCF.
III. Frequently Asked Questions
Question 1: Is the starting point for the leverage ratio exposure calculation total on-
balance-sheet assets as reported in the financial statements?
Yes, total assets are the correct starting point, with adjustments as specified in the
Standards, and with additions for off-balance-sheet exposure as required under the
Standards.
Question 2: Should aspects of derivatives exposures or SFT exposures that are on
the balance sheet be included as part of on-balance-sheet exposure, or as part of
derivatives or SFT exposure?
Certain exposures related to derivatives may appear on the balance sheet; the same is true
for SFTs. Those exposures related to derivatives or SFTs should be excluded from the on-
balance-sheet component of the leverage ratio exposure calculation, and instead included
with either derivatives exposure or SFT exposure, as appropriate.
Question 3: Why is collateral on the bank’s balance sheet part of the exposure
measure for the leverage ratio calculation?
The leverage ratio framework as developed by the Basel Committee treats all assets on a
bank’s balance sheet as creating equal risk. If the bank holds collateral on its balance sheet,
the collateral is an asset of the bank, and changes in the value of that collateral affect the
bank’s total assets and capital. In this sense, the leverage ratio calculation treats collateral
as an additional source of risk exposure to the bank, even though the purpose of taking the
collateral may be credit risk mitigation. The leverage ratio treats most types of secured
exposures the same way, on a gross basis without taking into account the effects of
collateral.
Question 4: Is the calculation of counterparty credit risk exposure the same as the
calculation used in the SA-CCR standards of the Central Bank?
Not quite – the CCR exposure calculation for the leverage ratio is similar, but with some
differences. Potential Future Exposure is different because the PFE multiplier is set equal to
1, rather than possibly being less than 1 as under the CCR Standards. Replacement Cost
also differs, due to some differences in the treatment of eligible collateral. The requirements
are covered in para 44 to 46 of the Leverage Ratio Standards.
Question 5: Why is the PFE multiplier set to 1 for derivatives in the calculation of the
leverage ratio exposure measure?
The PFE multiplier is set to 1 because unlike the SA-CCR calculation, there is no “credit”
given to the bank for overcollateralization for the leverage ratio. This is in the spirit of other
aspects of the leverage ratio exposure calculation, which strictly limits the recognition of
various forms of credit risk mitigation.
Question 6: What types of commitments can qualify for a CCF less than 40%?
Commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank without prior
notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a
borrower’s creditworthiness, without observed constraints on the bank’s ability to cancel
such commitments. As noted in the Standards, such commitments are subject to a 10%
CCF.
Question 7: The Standards states “general provisions or general loan loss reserves
which have reduced Tier 1 capital may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure
measure.” Does this imply that for banks under the standardised approach all general
provisions held on the balance sheet are permitted to be deducted from the exposure
measure?
200

[Document: PIII.pdf, Page 21 (Overlap)]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Yes, that interpretation is correct.
Question 8: The Standards does not mention interest in suspense; are bank’s allowed
to deduct this from the leverage ratio exposure measure?
No, interest in suspense should be included as an exposure. However, specific provisions
for interest in suspense can be deducted.
IV. Examples: Calculation of Gross SFT Assets
This section provides simple examples to help clarify the calculation of adjusted gross SFT
assets for the leverage ratio exposure measure. These examples are for guidance only;
banks should consult the actual Leverage Ratio Standards for the specific requirements.
Note that the SFT examples do not include the calculation of CCR exposure for the SFTs,
which is required under the leverage ratio standards.
For purposes of these examples, consider a bank with a simple initial balance sheet
consisting of assets of 200 cash and 400 in investment securities, funded by 600 in equity,
with no other initial liabilities. In simple T-account format, the bank’s initial position is the
following:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 200
Investment Securities 400 Equity 600
600 600
Example 1: Single Repurchase Agreement
A customer obtains financing from the bank through a repurchase agreement. The customer
provides securities to the bank of 110, receives cash of 100, and commits to repurchase the
securities at a specified future date. This is the bank’s only SFT.
After thetransaction, the bank’s balance sheet appears as follows:
Assets Liabilities and Equity
Cash 100
Investment Securities 510
Repo Encumbered
Securities -110
Cash Receivable 100 Equity 600
600 600
For purposes of the leverage ratio, gross SFT assets would be the sum of the cash receivable
created and the investment securities received, 100+110, for a total of 210. However, this
total is reduced by the value of the securities received under the SFT because the bank has
recognized the securities as an asset on its balance sheet,leading to an adjusted gross SFT
asset value of 100 for inclusion in the leverage ratio exposure measure.
Note that in this example, the net effect on leverage ratio exposure would be zero, since on-
balance-sheet assets exclusive of SFT assets decline by 100.
Example 2: Single Reverse Repurchase Agreement
A bank obtains funding by reversing out securities in exchange for cash. The bank receives
100 cash, repos out 110 in securities, and will repurchase the securities at a specified future
date. This is the bank’s only SFT.
After thetransaction, the bank’s balance sheet appears as follows:
201