[Document: document.pdf, Page 166]
CBUAE Classification: Public
 Historical shocks experienced by the bank due to market sentiment and
corresponding to macro-financial factors; and
 Additional scenarios prescribed by the Central Bank specifically through
supervisory interactions or financial stability processes.
Capital Calculation
90. The capital requirement should be aggregated across all currencies and scenarios
conservatively.
91. The estimation of the Pillar 2 capital corresponding to IRRBB should be based on the
most conservative loss arising from (i) the change in the economic value of equity (ΔEVE), and
(ii) the change in net interest income (ΔNII). The most conservative result should be considered
across all the scenarios calibrated by the bank. (In avoidance of doubt, the allocated capital
for IRRBB should not be lower than the maximum of the absolute EVE impact and the absolute
NII impact: Max(abs(EVE impact), abs(NII impact).
92. The Central Bank considers a bank as an outlier when the IRRBB EVE impact based
on the standard parallel shock leads to an economic value decline of more than 15% of its Tier
1 capital. The Central Bank may request an outlier bank to:
(i) Reduce its IRRBB exposures (e.g. by hedging);
(ii) Raise additional capital;
(iii) Set constraints on the internal risk parameters used by a bank; and/ or
(iv) Improve its risk management framework.
93. Irrespective of the approach or model chosen by the bank, at a minimum each bank
should calculate and report IRRBB using the methodology described by the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
G. Model Risk
94. Models have become an integral part of decision-making in the banking sector for risk
management, business decisions, and accounting. Inaccurate model results, e.g. based on
wrong assumptions or valuations, may lead to actual or potential financial losses or an
underestimation of risks. Therefore, the Central Bank considers model risk a significant risk
type.
95. Simple models should not be confused with poorly designed models. Poorly designed
models can be misleading and interfere with sound decision-making. Small and/or
unsophisticated banks can employ simple models. However, they cannot employ poorly
designed models. Each bank should manage model risk in accordance to the Central Bank
Model Management Standards and Guidance.
96. Model risk should be incorporated in each banks’ risk framework alongside other key
risks, as inherent consequences of conducting their activities (refer to Appendix 3.2).
Consequently, model risk should be managed through a formal process incorporating the
bank’s appetite for model uncertainty. The framework should be designed to identify, measure,
monitor, and mitigate this risk. A bank should mitigate a large appetite for model risk by
counter-measures such as conservative buffers on model results and/ or additional allocated
Pillar 2 capital.
164

[Document: document.pdf, Page 167]
CBUAE Classification: Public
97. The Central Bank recognises that the estimation of model risk is challenging. However,
each bank should demonstrate that they have implemented steps to measure the potential
losses arising from model risk. At minimum, each bank should implement a grouping approach
to categorise models according to their associated model risk. The uncertainty and losses
arising from models should be estimated by using a range of different techniques, including:
(i) Internal and external validations;
(ii) Comparison against alternative models;
(iii) Sensitivity analysis; and
(iv) Stress tests.
98. Each bank should also consider the quality of its model risk management in the model
risk analysis, including but not limited to the quality of model documentation, data,
assumptions, validation, staff, implementation, and usage.
Risk Diversification Effects
99. Each bank is expected to take a prudent approach whenever assuming risk
diversification effects. Furthermore, each bank should be aware that the Central Bank as a
matter of principle will not take into account inter-risk diversification in the SREP. Banks should
be cognisant of this when applying inter-risk diversification in its ICAAP.
H. Financial Risks from Climate Change
100. Banks are expected to build up Board awareness and understanding of the financial
risks arising from climate change and how they will affect their business models. Each bank
should use scenario analysis and stress tests to improve the risk identification process, to
understand the short- and long-term financial risks to their business model from climate
change, and to develop appropriate strategies accordingly.
I. Liquidity Risk and Funding Cost
101. Though capital is not a direct mitigation for liquidity risk and liquidity is not a mitigation
for capital risk, both risk types are interlinked. The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) are
expected to inform each other; with respect to the underlying assumptions, stress test results,
and forecasted management actions. Each bank is expected to assess the potential impact of
scenarios, integrating capital and liquidity impacts, and potential feedback processes, taking
into account, in particular, losses arising from the liquidation of assets, increased funding costs
or availability of funding during periods of stress.
102. For example, each bank is expected to assess the impact of deteriorating capital levels,
as projected in the ICAAP, on their liquidity. A downgrade by an external rating agency could,
for example, have direct implications for the refinancing ability of the bank. Vice versa, changes
in funding cost could impact capital adequacy.
VII. ICAAP Stress Test and Reverse Stress Test
103. Stress test helps to improve the bank’s understanding of the vulnerabilities that it faces
under exceptional, but plausible events, and provide the bank with an indication of how much
capital might be needed to absorb losses if such events occur, which supplements other risk
management approaches and measures. These events can be financial, operational, legal, or
relate to any other risk that may have an economic impact on the bank. The results derived
165

[Document: document.pdf, Page 168]
CBUAE Classification: Public
from stress tests can also assist the bank in determining the appropriate appetite for different
types of risks and in estimating the amount of capital that should be set aside to cover them.
104. Each bank is required to implement a stress testing framework to address both the
needs of the ICAAP and broader risk management. Stress tests and the stress test outcome
analysis should not be confined to the ICAAP. It should be designed to support decision-
making across the bank as explained in this section.
105. Each bank should perform an in-depth review of its potential vulnerabilities, capturing
all material risks on a bank-wide basis that result from its business model and operating
environment in the context of adverse events, stressed macroeconomic (e.g. economic cycle
risk), and financial conditions.
106. As part of the ICAAP exercise, each bank should carry out integrated, regular, rigorous,
and forward-looking stress tests that are appropriate to the nature of the bank’s business
model and major sources of risk. The frequency should be annually and more frequently, when
necessary, depending on the individual circumstances.
107. The Central Bank may challenge the key assumptions and their continuing relevance
to ensure that there is sufficient capital to withstand the impact of possible adverse events and/
or changes in market conditions.
Governance
108. The Board is responsible for the effective implementation of the stress tests framework
through appropriate delegation to Senior Management and subject-matter experts across the
bank. This framework should be supported by robust governance, processes, methods, and
systems with associated policies and procedures approved by the Board. The Board is not
only responsible for the stress testing policies, but also for oversight of the stress testing
execution. It is also responsible for the potential measures to mitigate stress scenario
outcomes and the key decisions and actions taken based on the stress testing results, such
as the consideration of stress testing outcomes in strategy and capital planning.
109. The stakeholders involved in a particular stress testing framework depend on the type
of stress tests. The scenario design, quantification of impact and the identification of mitigating
actions will involve a range of subject matter experts across the bank. Stress test-related
activities are not the sole responsibility of the team in charge of preparing the ICAAP or in
charge of the stress testing programme. Rather, the execution of stress tests is a collective
exercise, whereby numerous stakeholders contribute to the design, measurement, reporting
and analysis of stress tests. Stakeholders should include Senior Management and the Board.
Types of stress test exercises
110. Each bank is required to establish several distinct forms of stress test exercises as
described hereunder, however for the purposes of an ICAAP the minimum expectation is to
conduct internal enterprise-wide stress tests and portfolio-level stress tests. Regulatory stress
tests are not acceptable as the only form of internal stress tests:
a) Internal enterprise-wide stress tests: The purpose of these exercises to
analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank’s solvency, profitability,
stability, and capital. The methodology and scope of such stress tests should
be designed to address the specific risk profile of each bank, and will thus differ
from regulatory stress tests. These exercises are generally executed as top-
down exercises, with the objective to capture a wide scope of risks and
portfolios. Such exercise should support strategic decision related to the risk
appetite of the bank, its risk profile, and its portfolio allocation. Each bank should
employ at least three (3) scenarios in the execution of internal enterprise-wide
166

[Document: document.pdf, Page 169]
CBUAE Classification: Public
stress tests.
b) Internal portfolio-level stress tests: The purpose of these exercises to
execute frequent, variable and proactive stress tests on the various portfolios of
the bank. These stress tests are generally executed as bottom-up exercises,
with the objective to measure the stress impact at portfolio level accurately. The
scenarios and the methodologies should be granular and fully tailored to the risk
profile of each portfolio. Deteriorating economic circumstances are typically the
drivers for conducting unscheduled stress tests on a particular portfolio, for
example a declining outlook in the residential real estate sector would motivate
a stress tests on the commensurate portfolio. These stress tests can result in
the identification of risks that were not captured by the enterprise-wide stresses.
Consequently, these exercises should support, motivate strategic, and tactical
decisions at portfolio and/or facility level.
c) Regulatory stress tests: These exercises are commissioned by the Central
Bank or other supervisors, to whom banks’ foreign subsidiaries are accountable.
These exercises follow the scenarios and methodologies prescribed by
supervisors, which cover most of the bank’s portfolio. The purpose of such an
exercise is to analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank in order to
assess its solvency, profitability, stability, and ultimately the suitability of its
capital. While these exercises are originally designed to inform regulators for
supervision purposes, they should also inform Senior Management and steer
internal decision-making.
111. The frequency of stress test exercises should depend on their type, scope, depth, and
on the wider economic context. Each bank should execute enterprise-wide stress tests based
on a set of scenarios regularly at least quarterly is recommend. Each bank should execute
portfolio-level stress tests more frequently depending on the needs of risk management and
the business functions. Market risk stress tests in particular may have to be performed more
frequently.
112. The capital impact results of these stress tests should be analysed, compared,
incorporated, and presented in the ICAAP. One or several internal enterprise-wide stress test
outcomes should be explicitly incorporated in the capital planning, and presented accordingly
in the ICAAP capital planning section. The results from all types of stress tests exercise should
be employed by Senior Management and the Board to assess the suitability of the bank’s
capital.
Scenarios
113. Stress test scenarios should be designed to capture the risks and potential losses
appropriately, in coherence with the characteristics of each bank’s risk profile and portfolio.
The scope of these scenarios should cover all the risks identified as part of the identification
process documented in the ICAAP. At a minimum, the scope of risks should cover strategic
risk, credit risk, market risk, counterparty risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, IRRBB, credit
concentration risk, funding risk, reputational risk, and climate risk.
114. Stress scenarios should lead to a reliable measurement of loss under extreme but
plausible events. Such scenarios are essential tool to support risk quantification in providing
impact on Pillar 1 and Pillar 2. Consequently, the scenario design should be supported by a
clear choice of risk factors and associated shocks. Several types of design are commonly
employed:
(i) Sensitivity analysis involve shifting the values of an individual risk factor or
several risk factors by using standardised shocks. Sensitivity analysis is
167

[Document: document.pdf, Page 170]
CBUAE Classification: Public
employed to estimate the P&L profile and risks to the bank from a range of
shocks. This is particularly useful to identify non-linear response in the loss
profile. For instance, this could include measuring NII with parallel shifts of +/-
50bp, +/-100bp, +/-150bp and higher shocks applied to a yield curve. It also
includes measuring expected credit loss (ECL) and capital requirements with
standard parallel shocks of +/-100bp, +/-200bp, +/-300bp applied to the PD term
structure of a given portfolio (e.g. worsening of credit spreads, adverse changes
in interest rates, other macroeconomic or idiosyncratic variables).
(ii) Scenario analysis involves measuring the combined effect of several risk
factors with shocks designed in coherence with an economic narrative affecting
the bank’s business operations simultaneously. Such narrative should be based
on an analysis of the current economic conditions, the business environment
and the operating conditions of the bank. The scope of events should be broad,
consider an appropriate range of risk types, and geographies. The narrative
should be constructed with a clear sequence of unfolding events leading to (a)
direct risks, (b) second-order risks, and/or (c) systemic risks, and how these risks
affect the profit and loss profile and risks of the bank based on a scale of shocks
(e.g. an economic recession coupled with a tightening of market liquidity and
declining asset prices). The scope of the narrative should take into account the
economic environment and the features of each portfolio in scope. The
calibration of shocks should be supported by rigorous methodologies using (a)
historical data and past events, and/or (b) forward-looking assumptions.
Practitioners refer to ‘historical scenarios’ and ‘hypothetical scenarios’.
115. Each bank is expected to continuously monitor and identify new threats, vulnerabilities
and changes in the environment to assess whether its stress testing scenarios remain
appropriate at least quarterly and, if not, adapt them to the new circumstances. The impact of
the scenarios is expected to be updated regularly (e.g. quarterly). In case of any material
changes, the bank is expected to assess their potential impact on its capital adequacy over
the course of the year.
116. If the bank forecasts the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights
issues, reduction in the equity, etc.) and the capital planning reflects the proposed changes,
the bank must perform an additional stress scenario. In these additional stress scenarios the
bank should analyse the impact under the assumption that the capital increase does not
materialise. The impact analysis should include management actions and formal trigger points.
Methodology
117. The process of stress tests should be supported by robust and documented
methodologies. All models employed in the quantification of stress results should comply with
the requirements presented in the Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance.
118. For the measurement of capital under stress, each bank should employ a dedicated
financial model to forecast their financial statements under several economic conditions. Such
projection should be constructed over a minimum of three (3) years, in coherence with the
most recent capital plan and with the Central Bank regulatory exercise.
119. Stress scenarios may be derived from stochastic models or historical events, and can
be developed with varying degrees of precision, depth, and severity, particularly the impact on
asset quality, profitability, and capital adequacy. Each bank should consider three (3) to five
(5) scenarios (each scenario can have multiple severity levels (i.e. Low, medium, and high).
Although it is expected to consider the supervisory stress tests (“stress test exercise of the
Financial Stability Department (FSD)”) as one scenario, it is the bank’s responsibility to define
scenarios and sensitivities in the manner that best addresses its situation and to translate them
168

[Document: document.pdf, Page 171]
CBUAE Classification: Public
into risk, loss, and capital figures.
Use Test
120. Stress tests should support decision-making throughout the bank effectively. Stress
tests should be embedded in banks’ business decision-making and risk management process
at several levels of the organisation. Senior Management and the Board should lead and
approve all assumptions, the methodology framework and authorise the use of stress test
results.
121. Stress tests do not stop with the production of results. Risk mitigations should always
be considered in light of the stress severity and likelihood. If no action is deemed necessary,
this should be documented and clearly justified.
Reverse Stress Test
122. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress
tests. Reverse stress tests start with the identification of a pre-defined outcome where the
bank’s business model becomes non-viable (e.g. through insolvency), or it breaches
supervisory compliance minima, e.g. by breaching minimum capital requirements (i.e. the bank
will breach the regulatory capital buffer and minimum capital requirements). The next step is
to assess which scenarios and shocks lead to that identified outcome. Finally, the objective is
to assess whether the likelihood of occurrence is realistic and the impact warrants mitigating
actions. If a bank considers mitigation strategies, e.g. hedging strategies, the bank should
consider if such strategies would be viable. For example, a market that is stressed at a financial
system level may be characterised by a lack of market liquidity and increased counterparty
credit risk.
123. Effective reverse stress testing is a challenging exercise that requires the involvement
of all material risk areas across the bank’s subject matter experts, Senior Management, and
the Board.
124. Each bank should conduct a reverse stress test at least once a year. A well-designed
reverse stress test should also include enough diagnostic information to allow the identification
of the sources of potential failure. This enables proactive risk management actions and
implementation of an appropriate strategy for refined risk monitoring, prevention, and
mitigation. The reverse stress test requires each bank to consider scenarios beyond normal
business forecasts and aids identification of events linked to contagion with potential systemic
implications. Reverse stress testing has important quantitative and qualitative uses, through
informing Senior Management of vulnerabilities, and supporting measures to avoid them.
(Please refer to Appendix 3.3).
VIII. ICAAP Submission and Approval
Submission of the ICAAP report
125. The annual ICAAP report should be submitted to the Central Bank on or before the
submission dates addressed in Table 1.
126. All documents have to be submitted to the respective Central Bank reviewer by
softcopy (submitted in word or pdf format), sending a copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
127. The submission dates below as per Notice 2940/2022 differentiate between (i) national
banks and foreign bank and (ii) size and importance of the banks: (Table 1)
Table 1 - Submission date for ICAAP Report
169

[Document: document.pdf, Page 172]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Banks Report for Report for FY 2023
FY 2022 onwards
Large banks: FAB, ENBD, ADCB, DIB, Mashreq, ADIB, CBD 15/03/2022 01/03
Other local banks and HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank,
31/03/2022 31/03
Citibank, Arab Bank, and Bank of Baroda
Other Foreign Banks 15/04/2022 15/04
Approval of the ICAAP report:
128. The ICAAP report should be approved by:
(i) Senior Management (including the CRO): The bank should use Appendix 1 –
ICAAP – Mandatory disclosure form (Table 2) and include it as an attachment to
the ICAAP report;
(ii) Board approval: For all local banks, the ICAAP document must be approved by
the Board or Board risk committee, and Senior Management prior to submission
to the Central Bank. The meeting minutes of the Board of Directors meeting
should state the approval of the ICAAP document and challenges that have
taken place; and
(iii) For foreign branches, the ICAAP document should be approved by (a) the
managing director and/ or relevant highest committee of the bank in the UAE,
and by (b) their head office, stating that the ICAAP assumptions and forecasts
are in line with the group’s assumptions, forecasts, and that the group’s Board
approves/ endorse the results of the ICAAP.
IX. Internal Control Review
129. The bank’s internal control structure is essential to the capital assessment process.
Effective control of the internal capital adequacy assessment process should include an
independent review and the involvement of both internal audit and external audit (refer to
Appendix 3.1). Senior Management has a responsibility to ensure that the bank establishes a
system for assessing the full scope of its risks, develops a system to relate risk to the bank’s
capital level, and establishes a method for monitoring compliance with internal policies.
130. Internal Audit should perform an audit on the bank’s ICAAP report annually. The report
has to be submitted no later than three (3) months after the submission of the ICAAP report to
the bank’s reviewer and in copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae.
131. Internal control functions should perform regular reviews of the risk management
process to make sure its coherence, validity, and rationality. The review of the ICAAP should
cover the following:
(i) Ensuring that the ICAAP is complete and suitable as of the bank’s context ,
operational conditions, the reliability of controls behind it;
(ii) The process of identifying all material risks;
(iii) Efficiency of the information systems that support the ICAAP;
170

[Document: document.pdf, Page 173]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iv) Ensuring that the measurement methodologies in use are suitable to support the
ICAAP valuation,
(v) Ensuring the accuracy, and comprehensive of the data input to the ICAAP;
(vi) Rational behind the ICAAP output and assumptions in use;
(vii) Rational and suitability of stress tests and analysis of assumptions;
(viii) Consolidation of the ICAAP outcomes with the risk management (e.g., limit
setting and monitoring); and
(ix) Rational of the capital plan and internal capital targets.
132. In addition, the review should cover the integrity and validity of regulatory data
submitted to the Central Bank during the course of the year relating to Pillar 1 capital
requirements, which should address, but not be limited to the following:
(i) Appropriate classification of risk-weighted assets (RWA);
(ii) Appropriate inclusion of the off-balance sheet values and the application of credit
conversion factors (CCF); and
(iii) Appropriate credit risk mitigation (CRM) methodology application and values.
133. The role and validity of internal control functions are also important and should be
verified with regard to other topics. For example:
(i) All risk quantification methodologies and models must be subject to independent
validation (internal/ external); and
(ii) Internal Audit should perform an independent review of the bank’s capital
framework implementation every year in accordance with the Capital Standards.
If the Central Bank is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by the
bank’s Internal Audit function, the Central Bank may require an external review.
X. Frequently-Asked Questions (FAQ)
Question 1: What defines independent validation?
Answer: Independent validation can be performed by an independent function of the bank. However, in
some instances an external validation/ review is required. For large banks, external validations are
strongly encouraged, if not explicitly required.
Question 2: What are sustainable business model criteria?
Answer: Sustainable business models may be defined in different ways. For the purpose of this
guidance, a bank will be considered to have a sustainable business model if it meets all the following
criteria:
(i) The bank generates strong and stable returns, which are acceptable given its
risk appetite and funding structure;
(ii) The bank does not have any material asset concentrations or unsustainable
concentrated sources of income;
171

[Document: document.pdf, Page 174]
CBUAE Classification: Public
(iii) The bank has a strong competitive position in its chosen markets and its strategy
is likely to reinforce this strength;
(iv) The bank’s forecasts are based on plausible assumptions about the future
business environment; and
(v) The bank’s strategic plans are appropriate given the current business model and
management’s execution capabilities.
Question 3: What is the definition of model?
Answer: A quantitative method, system, or approach that applies statistical, economic, financial, or
mathematical theories, techniques, and assumptions to process input data into quantitative estimates.
Question 4: Who should be the owner of ICAAP, Finance or Risk Management?
Answer: Multiple committees and working groups have to be involved in the ICAAP. However, Risk
Management should have the ultimate responsibility for the final ICAAP outcome report, the ICAAP
being in substance a risk evaluation process. The Board must approve the ICAAP, its outcomes, and
the proposed mitigation actions.
Question 5: The bank uses multi-period ST scenarios over three years. Which reporting year
(Y1/2/3) shall be reported in the Pillar 2 template in Appendix 2 – ICAAP: Executive summary
table (Table 3)?
Answer: Banks using multi-period stress scenarios should include the most severe period of the most
severe stress test results (reverse stress scenarios not considered). All other banks that perform a
simpler point in time or 1-period stress scenario should include the most severe ST results (reverse
stress scenarios not considered). In addition, the evaluation of Pillar 2 risks and stress test impact as of
the reporting date is mandatory for all banks.
Question 6: Does the bank have to present the capital contingency plan as part of ICAAP report?,
If the bank plans to inject capital, is it required to have two capital plans, one with and a second
plan without capital injection?
Answer:
(i) The bank must have a Board-approved capital contingency policy. The actual
capital contingency plan as a response to the ICAAP results has to be in line
with the capital contingency policy and the ICAAP report should contain at least
an overview of the capital contingency plan.
(ii) If the bank plan to change its capital base, the bank should have one capital
plan, which reflects the capital injections (and reflects the source of injection).
Injections can be considered if approved by Senior Management, if part of the
official bank’s capital plan and if the Central Bank is informed on the planned
capital injections. A stress test scenario has to show the impact if the injections
do not materialise.
Question 7: What is the ICAAP submission timeframe and can an extension be granted?
Answer: The ICAAP submission should comply with the schedule specified in Section VIII - ICAAP
Submission and Approval. An extension of the ICAAP report submission date will only be granted in
exceptional cases, by the bank’s Central Bank reviewer.
Question 8: Can banks implement the IRB methodology in full (i.e. A-IRB) while reporting credit
172

[Document: document.pdf, Page 175]
CBUAE Classification: Public
risk under the ICAAP, and is it mandatory?
Answer: The bank should apply whichever approach is deemed appropriate for their size and complexity,
as the ICAAP is an internal process. The evaluation of whether the Pillar 1 capital is adequate for the
bank's risk is mandatory. The F-IRB approach is an accepted approach. With the implementation of
IFRS9 banks have a PD for every exposure, which may be used to calculate the F-IRB capital. It is,
however, not mandatory to fully implement the F-IRB approach. Comparing regulatory capital
requirements with those determined using the F-IRB does indicate to what extent regulatory Pillar 1
capital requirements may be insufficient. The comparison between the F-IRB approach and the
regulatory standardised approach for credit risk has to be performed on an asset class level and the
greater capital requirement should be applied in the ICAAP.
The F-IRB should follow the floor on the PD of 0.03% and apply a fixed 45% LGD. The bank may
consider certain eligible collateral to reduce the LGD accordingly. The bank shall not use own
estimations of the LGD under the F-IRB.
Question 9: Is it required to calculate a capital charge against the financial risks from climate
change in the ICAAP? Is any calculation methodology prescribed for this?
Answer: The bank should understand risks related to climate change and their impact on the
sustainability of the bank and the risks of its business strategy. Banks should develop adequate
methodologies to quantify the risk with models sophistication depending on size and business model.
Stress tests and scenario analysis should be explored. Banks should consider assessing their green
asset ratio (GAR) which measures a bank's “green assets” as a share of its total assets as an initial tool.
The risk identification process should determine whether the risk arising from climate change is a
material capital risk for the bank.
Question 10: How commercial / non-commercial subsidiaries have be treated as part of the
ICAAP exercise? And how to treat investments in insurance subsidiaries?
Answer: One of the key components of the ICAAP is to determine whether the capital requirement under
the Standardised Approach is adequately reflecting the risk. Additional risks arising from investment in
subsidiaries should be addressed and assessed in the ICAAP. The bank should consider any subsidiary
including commercial, non-commercial, and insurance subsidiaries.
Question 11: The ICAAP has to be performed on consolidated level. Is it an additional
requirement to perform the ICAAP also at solo level or should the ICAAP also have a solo-level
analysis?
Answer: The ICAAP needs to address additional risks that are not covered (or not fully covered) under
Pillar 1. The ICAAP is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand-alone basis, at
regulatory consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should evaluate the capital
requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory consolidation.
However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the group structure of the bank.
The ICAAP guidance lays out the importance to consider the group structure when evaluating the banks'
capital adequacy, in Section IV "ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test”. The bank should be in a
position to report, measure and manage risks arising from its subsidiaries, branches, group entities and
from the consolidation process. The ICAAP should reflect the results of the bank’s analysis.
Consequently, the analysis should consider all relevant levels of the group structure (consolidated, solo,
entity level, and including significant affiliate investments). Additional risks may have to be addressed
as a specific additional capital add-on.
Question 12: Does the bank require a separate capital plan approved by the Board, or is it
sufficient to have the approved ICAAP that includes the capital plan?
173

[Document: document.pdf, Page 176]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Answer: The capital management policy and the ICAAP complement each other. The policy sets the
framework and the capital management plan describes the capital management strategy and the steps
to achieve it in compliance with the policy. The capital management plan can be a separate document.
However, the ICAAP report should display the full picture, including an overview of the capital
management policy and the capital management plan related to the ICAAP outcomes.
Question 13: If a bank reports regulatory operational risk capital requirements using the BIA, can
the Standardised Approach be used to quantify the potential additional operational risk charge
under Pillar 2 if the capital requirement is higher under the SA compared to the BIA?
Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank must determine the most adequate methodology
to quantify the extent to which regulatory capital requirements for operational risk fail to adequately
address the true extent of its potential operational risk losses.
Question 14: Can the bank use the market risk stress test template as shared for Central Bank
Econometric Stress test exercise in its ICAAP?
Answer: The bank should determine the most adequate approach to quantify its risks. The quantification
methodology should obtain internal approval. The methodology needs to be explained, validated and
reasoned in detail as part of the methodology development and continuous model monitoring process.
Question 15: Does the Internal Audit (IA) review required under Section IX - Internal Control
Review contradict the requirement in Appendix 3.4, which requires banks to disclose the Internal
Audit findings in the ICAAP report?
Answer: The Central Bank is of the opinion that IA is not suffering a conflict of interest by reviewing a
bank’s ICAAP and by disclosing its general findings and findings specific to the ICAAP in the ICAAP
report. IA is involved twofold in the ICAAP report:
(i) IA has to perform a review of the ICAAP (process) periodically as part of the
audit function.
(ii) IA has to perform the prescribed review for each ICAAP, to be submitted within
3 months of the submission.
The ICAAP report shall contain the most recent (available) audit findings, their status, and actions taken.
(Note, that in the Capital Standards, para 13 under Introduction and Scope requires an annual review of
the capital framework.)
Question 16: Why does the Standard/ Guidance not address any specifics related to Islamic
banking?
Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank should determine the most adequate
methodology to quantify risks arising for Islamic banks in general and Islamic banking products
specifically.
Question 17: Being a branch of an international bank, is a third party validation required, as this
is already conducted at the parent company/ group level covering risk frameworks, systems and
models?
Answer: Branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks are required to validate the risk valuation
methodologies deployed in their UAE operations. If the branch or subsidiary is applying head office
methodologies, these should nevertheless be validated on branch or subsidiary level. In addition, the
branch or subsidiary has to have a full understanding of the applied methodologies as it cannot fully rely
on the head office.
174

[Document: document.pdf, Page 177]
CBUAE Classification: Public
XI. Appendices
Appendix 1 - ICAAP: Mandatory disclosure form (Table 2)
134. All banks are required to disclose the following information as a separate cover sheet
when submitting the ICAAP report to the Central Bank:
Table 2 - ICAAP Mandatory Details
Bank XXXX
Date 20XX
Contact point name and contact details [name, email, phone number]
Scope of ICAAP (entities included) [legal entities in scope]
I (full name) in my role as CRO hereby confirm the following on the ICAAP report:
(i) We have identified all material risks and allocated capital [tick box if
accordingly completed]
(ii) We have set out a 3-5 year forward looking capital plan based on [tick box if
the strategic/ financial plan of the bank completed]
(iii) We have implemented a 3-5 year forward-looking stress test and [tick box if
measured the impact on the capital position of the bank completed]
(iv) The ICAAP has been [relevant details from Board committee (Managing
signed off by: Director /highest committee for foreign banks)]
(v) The ICAAP has been challenged/ by the Board (highest committee [tick box if
for foreign banks) and the nature of the challenge will be communicated to completed]
the Central Bank
CRO signature [signature]
Date [date]
175

[Document: document.pdf, Page 178]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 2 - ICAAP Executive Summary
Table 3 - ICAAP Executive Summary
As of the reporting date of the ICAAP Pillar 1 in AED '000 Pillar 1 in AED '000 Pillar 2 in AED '000
Date Reporting date of the ICAAP, year with the most severe year with the most severe
e.g. 31/12/2022 impact for the most severe impact for the most severe
ST scenario, e.g. 31/12/2024. ST scenario, e.g. 31/12/2024.
Effective Capital Conservation Buffer 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
(CCB) (standard CCB of 2.5% + D-SIB Buffer
+ CCyB) in percentage points (in %)
Capital requirements under Business as Usual
Total Pillar 1 - - -
Top 3 Pillar 2 capital requirements
Other Pillar 2 capital requirements
Total Pillar 2 -
Minimum regulatory CAR requirement 10.50% 10.50% 10.50%
(incl. CCB)
Actual CAR Ratio
Total Capital Surplus/ deficit (Measured - - -
including capital buffer requirements)
Minimum CET1 regulatory requirement 7.00% 7.00% 7.00%
(incl. CCB)
Actual CET1 Ratio
CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure - - -
includes capital buffer requirements)
Stress Testing
Minimum regulatory CAR requirement 10.50% 10.50%
(excl. CCB)
Actual CAR Ratio under ST
Additive impact of ST on CAR
Surplus / (Deficit, i.e., additional capital - -
required)
Minimum regulatory CET1 requirement 7.00% 7.00%
(excl. CCB)
Actual CET1 Ratio under ST
Additive impact of ST on CET1 ratio
CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure - -
includes capital buffer requirements)
135. The ICAAP: Executive Summary Table (Table 3) above should be used for the ICAAP
report for the FY2022 ICAAP report. Each bank is required to download the most current
reporting template prior to finalizing the ICAAP report from the CBUAE IRR SYSTEM
(BRF/BASEL Portal) (CBUAE IRR), in the live environment for banks:
(i) Detailed reporting template including description (this report must be available
upon request); and
(ii) Executive Summary report (should form part of the ICAAP report Executive
Summary).
176

[Document: document.pdf, Page 179]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Appendix 3 – Additional Requirements for the ICAAP
3.1 Governance and Risk Management
136. In the ICAAP report, each bank should provide high level summaries of key areas of
the risk framework of the bank: organisational structure, governance framework, risk
management function and the risk control function. The bank’s high level summaries should
refer to the relevant policies, procedures, manuals, and limits:
3.1.1 Organisational Structure
137. Each bank is expected to describe how
(i) The bank’s Board encourages a risk culture and prudent behaviours at all levels;
(ii) The Board Risk Committee (“BRC”) provides oversight and challenges the risk
exposures, risk appetite, and tolerance; and
(iii) The Risk Management Function (RMF) is structured, including reporting lines
and a summary of functions and responsibilities. The RMF should have
authority, responsibilities, and resources, to conduct risk related policies and the
risk management framework, and committees addressing the risk function.
3.1.2 Governance Framework
138. Each bank is expected to describe
(i) Board and Senior Management oversight (i.e. ICAAP governance framework
with a description of responsibilities, and the separation of functions);
(ii) Arrangements through which the Board and Senior Management define the
bank-wide risk appetite;
(iii) Relevant policies and risk appetite/limits/tolerance; and
(iv) How the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is held responsible for the methodology and
utilisation of the ICAAP, including
 reporting comprehensive, comprehensible information on risks; and
 advising the Board independently and objectively, enabling them to
understand the bank’s overall risk profile and to effectively discharge
their responsibilities.
3.1.3 Risk Management Function (RMF) and Risk Control Function
139. With regard to the bank’s risk management and control function, the ICAAP report is
expected to describe
(i) How the RMF has access to all business lines and other units that might have
possibility in generating risk , and to all relevant subsidiaries, and affiliates;
(ii) RMF processes/ practices/ mechanisms through which the bank effectively
identifies, measures, monitors, and reports material risks;
(iii) Mechanisms that ensure that the policies, methodologies, controls, and risk
monitoring systems are developed, validated, maintained and appropriately
177

[Document: document.pdf, Page 180]
CBUAE Classification: Public
approved;
(iv) Processes to effectively identify and review the changes in risks arising from the
bank’s strategy, business model, new products, and changes in the economic
environment;
(v) Capital contingency plans for surviving unexpected events;
(vi) Risk management information systems (MIS) that ensure:
 That the bank distributes regular, accurate, and timely information on the
bank’s aggregate risk profile internally;
 The appropriate frequency and distribution of risk management
information;
 Early warning processes for pre-empting capital limit breaches; and
 Internal decision-making process are facilitated to allow the bank’s
management to authorize remedial actions before capital adequacy is
compromised.
(vii) The bank’s risk appetite as defined and used in the preparation of the ICAAP,
which should be consistently referenced for taking business decisions;
(viii) Risk quantification methodologies that are clearly articulated and documented,
including high-level risk measurement assumptions and parameters;
(ix) The approaches used to assess capital adequacy, which should include the
stress test framework and a well-articulated definition of capital adequacy;
(x) The capital planning process objectives, which should be forward-looking and
aligned to the bank’s business model and strategy;
(xi) Capital allocation processes including monitoring among business lines and
identified risk types (e.g. risk limits defined for business lines, entities, or
individual risks should be consistent to ensure the overall adequacy of the bank’s
internal capital resources); and
(xii) The boundary of entities included,
(xiii) The process of risk identification, and
(xiv) The bank’s risk inventory and classification, reflecting the materiality of risks and
the treatment of those risks through capital.
140. The internal control functions should play a vital role in contributing to the formation of
a sustainable business strategy. The ICAAP report should describe the following with regard
to internal control functions:
(i) The responsibilities of Internal Audit and Compliance concerning risk
management;
(ii) Any relevant internal and external audit reviews of risk management and the
conclusions reached; and
(iii) Outsourcing arrangements that have a material effect on internal capital
adequacy management, if any. This should elaborate the bank’s reliance on, or
178