
of LFIs, assisting law enforcement in the identification and investigation of criminal activity, and satisfying
regulatory expectations concerning timely suspicious activity reporting. The alert management and
dispositioning process should be adequately staffed and free of bottlenecks and should include a process
for the expedited filing of urgent reports in appropriate cases. For purposes of this guidance, “alerts” shall
be understood to include automated transaction monitoring alerts, employee referrals, and law enforcement
requests. The LFI should apply a risk-based approach to the alert review process by prioritizing alerts based
on their risk category. For instance, alerts generated on suspicious transactions of higher-risk customers
should be risk-scored higher and prioritized for review.
Alert Review: An LFI’s employees should review an alert and determine whether further investigation is
warranted. The underlying basis for the determination should be documented in accordance with an LFI’s
investigations procedures. An LFI may choose to have alert review decisions subject to Quality Control
(“QC”) review, prior to final dispositioning.
Where the facts available at the alert review stage are or may be sufficient to warrant an STR or SAR filing
without further investigation, or where the transaction may otherwise require immediate attention (per
criteria set forth below in 4.4 Activity Requiring Immediate Attention), employees should immediately
escalate the alerted activity to the designated STR or SAR decision authority for expedited review.
Case Investigation: For any alerted activity determined to require further investigation, employees should
conduct and complete (at least preliminarily) an investigation of the alerted activity, document the results
of any research or analysis performed, and make a recommendation as to whether an STR or SAR should
be filed.
Where a case investigator becomes aware of activity that requires immediate attention (per criteria set forth
below in 4.4 Activity Requiring Immediate Attention), employees should immediately escalate the activity to
the designated STR or SAR decision authority for expedited review.
If, in the case investigator’s judgment, the facts available at the filing recommendation deadline meet one
or more of the UAE regulatory definitions of suspicious activity, the case investigator should submit a
recommendation to file an STR or SAR, even if certain aspects of the activity remain unexplained.
Unanswered requests for information (RFIs) made in the course of a case investigation should not delay
the timely submission of recommendations with respect to an STR or SAR filing. LFIs should define the
reasonable RFI timeframe to allow the customer to respond to quires raised during a case investigation as
part of the RFI process.
Page 26 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 27]
CBUAE Classification: Public
In the event of escalation for expedited review, the Compliance Officer or MLRO should review the activity
and make a determination as to whether it is suspicious within 24 hours of the date of escalation. Where
appropriate, the Compliance Officer or MLRO also should escalate the activity for potential exit and account
closure.
4.2. STR/SAR Decision Making and Filing
In the absence of escalation for expedited review, LFIs are expected to file an STR/SAR within a maximum
of 35 business days from the date of automated alert generation. The establishment of adequate grounds
of suspicion may involve the investigation procedures as per the LFIs' AML and/or Financial Crime
Compliance policies and procedures. LFIs are expected to complete the required investigative procedures
as expeditiously as possible. LFIs must maintain adequately detailed records of investigative procedures
performed against alerts and when filing an STR/SAR, must include a summary justifying the time taken to
establish grounds of suspicion.
In the event of escalation for expedited review, the Compliance Officer or MLRO should file an STR or SAR
to the FIU within 24 hours of the determination. All prospective STRs or SARs should be reviewed for
accuracy and completeness prior to filing, in accordance with applicable procedures.
LFIs are ultimately responsible under UAE’s AML-CFT Law to report suspicious activity without delay and
should seek to file STRs and SARs ahead of the prescribed timeline.
4.3. Monitoring and Reporting of Continuing Suspicious Activity
Upon filing an STR/SAR pertaining to an account holder, LFIs are expected to implement enhanced
monitoring on such account holders. In the case of continued suspicious activity detected against said
account holder, LFIs are expected to expeditiously file an STR/SAR with the FIU.
4.4. Activity Requiring Immediate Attention
Situations requiring immediate attention include reportable violations that are ongoing (e.g., part of an
ongoing money laundering scheme as indicated by an appropriate law enforcement authority) and
transactions that the LFI suspects are related to the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations.
4.5. Exceptions for Complex Investigations
There may be instances when the LFI encounters potentially unusual or suspicious activity that is of a
“complex” nature. The following is a non-exhaustive list of factors that should be considered to determine
whether investigated activity qualifies as a complex investigation: employee-related investigations;
significant investigations involving multiple customers, multiple jurisdictions, multiple accounts, multiple
transactions, and/or multiple subpoena requests; and legal referred investigations.
If the LFI designates an investigation as “complex”, the LFI should submit an initial STR or SAR to the FIU
within 15 business days of the alert generation. The initial STR/SAR should be labelled as a “Complex
investigation” to the FIU. Following the initial STR or SAR filing, the LFI has an additional 30 business days
Page 27 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 28]
CBUAE Classification: Public
to obtain all necessary information related to the complex investigation and submit a follow-up STR or SAR
to the FIU.
4.6. Summary of Review, Investigation, and Reporting Timelines
The following table summarizes the recommended suspicious activity review, investigation, and reporting
timelines in the absence of escalation for expedited review. Please note – the following table captures the
maximum timeline by which LFIs should identify and report suspicious activity and transactions. LFIs are
ultimately responsible under UAE’s AML-CFT Law to report suspicious activity without delay and should
seek to file STRs and SARs ahead of the below timelines.
Action Maximum Timeline in Calendar Days
LFIs are expected to file an STR/SAR
Dispositioning of alert; recommendation on
within a maximum of 35 business days
whether to file an STR or SAR; and decision on
from the date of automated alert
whether to file an STR or SAR
generation.
If an LFI designates an investigation as
“complex”, the LFI should submit an
initial STR within 15 business days of
Filing of a follow-up STR or SAR for a
alert generation – SAR/STR to be
“complex investigation”
labelled “Complex investigation”. Follow-
up SAR/STR to be submitted within 30
business days of filing the initial STR.
Upon filing an STR/SAR pertaining to an
account holder, LFIs are expected to
implement enhanced monitoring on such
account holders. In the case of
Filing of STR or SAR on continuing activity continued suspicious activity detected
against said account holder, LFIs are
expected to expeditiously file an
STR/SAR continuing activity with the
FIU.
4.7. Escalation for Expedited Review
In certain cases, an alert or case may need to be dispositioned and an STR or SAR filed more rapidly than
usual processes allow. In such cases, the alert will be dispositioned and the STR or SAR filed according to
the expedited review timeline as laid out below.
Circumstances where expedited review is expected include:
 The activity requires immediate attention (as defined above); and
 The facts available at the alert review stage are or may be sufficient to warrant an STR or SAR
filing without further investigation.
The following table summarizes the recommended suspicious activity review, investigation, and reporting
timelines in the event of escalation for expedited review.
Page 28 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 29]
CBUAE Classification: Public
Action Maximum Timeline in
Calendar Days
Decision on whether to file an STR or SAR and
24 hours from decision to file
filing of first STR or SAR
Filing of STR or SAR on continuing activity Upon filing an STR/SAR
pertaining to an account holder,
LFIs are expected to implement
enhanced monitoring on such
account holders. In the case of
continued suspicious activity
detected against said account
holder, LFIs are expected to
expeditiously file an STR/SAR
with the FIU.
5. Confidentiality and Prohibition against “Tipping Off”
According to Article 18 of the AML-CFT Decision, when reporting suspicious activity or transactions to the
FIU, LFIs are obliged to maintain confidentiality with regard to both the information being reported and to
the act of reporting itself, and to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the information and data reported
are protected from access by any unauthorized person.
As part of their risk-based AML/CFT framework, and in keeping with the nature and size of their businesses,
LFIs and their foreign branches or group affiliates where applicable, should establish adequate policies,
procedures and controls to ensure the confidentiality and protection of information and data related to STRs,
SARs, and other report types. These policies, procedures and controls should be documented, approved
by senior management, and communicated to the appropriate levels of the organization.
LFIs must ensure that all relevant information relating to STRs, SARs, and other report types is kept
confidential, with due regard to the conditions and exceptions provided for in the law, and the guiding
principles for this must be established in policies and procedures. LFIs should ensure that policy and
procedures are reflected in for example, appropriate access rights with regard to core systems used for
case management and notifications, secure information flows and guidance/training to all employees
involved. This guidance and training are particularly important for the first line of defense employees who
have contact with customers. It is essential that these employees know when there may be cases of
suspicious transactions, what questions they have to ask the customer and which information they must
not under any circumstances disclose to the customer.
It should be noted that the confidentiality requirement does not pertain to communication within the LFIs
or its affiliated group members (foreign branches, subsidiaries, or parent company) for the purpose of
sharing information relevant to the identification, prevention or reporting of suspicious transactions and/or
crimes related to money laundering and the financing of terrorism and illegal organisations, according to
the Article 39.1 of the AML-CFT Decision.
Page 29 of 46

[Document: CBUAE_EN_418_VER2.pdf, Page 30]
CBUAE Classification: Public
It is a federal crime for LFIs or their managers, employees, or representatives, to inform a customer or any
other person, whether directly or indirectly, that a report has been filed or will be filed, or of any information
or data contained in the report, or that an investigation is under way concerning the transaction, otherwise
known as “tipping off.” Any person violating this prohibition is liable to a penalty of no less than AED100,000
and no more than AED500,000 and imprisonment for a term of not less one year, according to the Article
25 of the AML-CFT Law.
6. Handling of Transactions and Business Relationships
after Filing STRs or SARs
6.1. Requirements for Corresponding with the FIU
As a standard practice and as specified in Article 9.1 of the AML-CFT Law, the FIU can reach out to LFIs
to provide additional requested information pertaining to an STR or SAR. Therefore, when responding to
the FIU’s inquiries, details should be provided in a way that is precise and outlined as per the request. LFIs
should maintain clarity on the presented information and provide it in the required format (e.g., tabular
format, pdf, etc.). Moreover, LFIs should avoid adding unnecessary codes and abbreviations or any raw
information extracted directly from the core databases, which are unknown to the FIU. It is important to
understand that the details pertaining to the source and destination of funds are essential for investigating
the reported activity. Therefore, names; account numbers; country of origin and destination; currencies;
dates; source and purpose of transactions; and other related information should be detailed in LFI’s
response. Once the report is filed, LFI should send the report web reference number and inform the FIU
via the goAML Message Board.
6.2. Post STR and SAR Process
Following an STR or SAR filing, the FIU may or may not revert to the LFI with specific instructions, requests
for additional information, feedback or further guidance related to the STR or SAR, or to the business
relationship in general. In such cases, these communications will generally be directed to the Compliance
Officer or MLRO of the LFI. However, LFIs may not receive instructions, additional information requests, or
other feedback from the FIU regarding STRs or SARs that have been filed; or the receipt of such
communications may be delayed beyond what they consider to be a reasonable time period. In such
instances, LFIs must follow their internal policies in relation to such customers and should determine the
appropriate handling of the STR or SAR and of the business relationship in general, taking into
consideration all of the risk factors involved.
Specifically, once a suspicious transaction or other suspicious information related to a customer or business
relationship has been reported to the FIU, the LFI should take the following immediate responses:
 LFIs should follow the instructions, if any, of the FIU in relation to both the specific transaction and
to the business relationship in general.
 LFIs should identify all related/associated accounts or relationship of STR or SAR customers and
conduct a review on those accounts/relationship to check whether any suspicious transaction(s)
Page 30 of 46